h1. Opportunity
I’ve worked myself sick over the last week or so, barely finding time to attend to midterms.  The reason for that is because this weekend my employers, "PICnet":http://www.picnet.net/, will be at %(=caps)MIT% talking about what we’re doing and the software I’ve been building for them.  I’ll write more about that in another post.  This post is for me.
I’ve waffled a lot about where I want to be in my life, and most of that confusion has made its way here.  I’ve at least settled on where I’m going to live: in downtown DC, sharing a flat with "Phil":http://www.superfuturecity.com/, which should work out well on all fronts.  I can’t do dorm life, the on-campus apartments are little better, and the prospect of living alone in Baltimore is a bit too grim to act on.  DC is my home, and it’ll be nice to live there again.
I made this living decision expecting to be commuting to school, but again I’m waffling about where I want to be regarding my education.  I mused here some time ago that I could (continue to) get the kind of work I want without finishing school, but it was only idle speculation at that point.  But now I _have_ the job I want, the kind of job I’m supposedly getting an education to be able to get.  And it’s put me in a very frustrating place.
I can’t do my job to the fullest capacity because of school.  I wouldn’t be sick right now if I didn’t have to attend to school as well as work; I’d be exhausted, sure, but not sick.  My classes this semester aren’t the annoyance they’ve previously been, but rather a side-interest, like a good work of non-fiction you read in bed after a long day at the office.  I’m engaged by school, but not inspired to work myself crazy like I am for this job.
I _love_ what I’m doing; I’ve never been more motivated in my life.
Our company is in a pretty good place, and though I don’t want count my chickens before they hatch, I think things are only going to get better.  I’m going to ride out this semester at school, continuing to put in part-time consultant’s hours, and see where things are come summer.  I just have this gut instinct that if I don’t give everything I’ve got to what we’re doing I’m going to regret it.  The choice is mine, as my employers are incredibly accommodating, so we’ll see what happens.
