h1. Tonight's Show: Beyond the Remix

This evening's show was originally slated to focus solely on "plunderphonics," music made out of purposefully stolen sounds.  However, putting together a diverse mix from this genre alone proved impossible.  So, while staying in same vein, the selections this evening all go "beyond the remix" in various ways.  Dsico kicks it off with a nasty DSP reworking of pop music's J.Lo, and plunderphonic peers DJ Pantshead and Stop Children source video games, commercials, and more to keep it going.  A couple of tracks from Disc and Christian Marclay offer a different perspective on the hardware-inspired remix, as the previous uses skipping CDs and the latter distorted vinyl to produce entirely new and interesting sounds.

The shining stars for the last 20 years of plunderphonics, Negativland, offer both a humorous musing on celebrity endorsements and an ethereal collage of car-themed sounds from past and present points in their discography, respectively.  And, after other scattered amusements and provocative recontextualizations, I have two wildly different interpretations of Joy Division's "Love Will Tear Us Apart."

Listen, laugh, think, and enjoy.

# J.Lo vs Dsico - Keep it Real Bitch (Jenny from the Block)
# DJ Pantshead and The ECC - Grand Theft Audio
# Stop Children - Medicine Head 24 Hour
# Disc - Laptop Rock
# Negativland - Ain't No Baby
# Christian Marclay - Smoker
# CassetteBoy - CassetteBoy Vs. Microsoft
# Junklight - Machines That Make Music
# Stuntrock - I Can't Wait Till This Road...
# The Tape-beatles - The changing world
# The Evolution Control Committe - Rocked By Rape
# Christian Marclay - His Master's Voice [Excerpt]
# Negativland - Most Successful Formula
# Disc - Love Will Tear Us Apart
# Squarepusher - Love Will Tear Us Apart