h1. Upcoming Music

I missed "Q And Not U":http://www.qandnotu.org/ at Fort Reno this past week for "a good cause":http://www.livejournal.com/users/uncorrupted84/64800.html, but I have every intention of catching them when they’re back at the "Black Cat":http://www.blackcatdc.com/ on September 5th.  But there’s oh so much more on my musical agenda!  "Kid606":http://www.kid606.com/home.html and "DJ /rupture":http://www.negrophonic.com/ are playing Baltimore’s illustrious "Ottobar":http://www.theottobar.com/ this coming Wednesday the 13th, which should make for some crazy ear-fucking din.  Saturday the 16th marks the second "techclub":http://www.techclub-dc.com/ event, "Digi-Lytes":http://www.techclub-dc.com/techclub_digi-lytes.html: projected digital photography, quirky sounds, and general 22nd Century artiness will abound.  Then "Radiohead":http://www.radiohead.co.uk "plays":http://www.mppconcerts.com/events.php?eventID=65383 Merriweather Post Pavillion Wednesday the 20th.  I’ve been trying to see them for literally years, and have failed every time.  It’s a long story.  But their latest album, minus a couple throwaway tracks, has grown on me and it’ll be great to finally see them (in "good company":http://www.livejournal.com/users/uncorrupted84/ no less).

Finally, I’m backing up "5-to-the-dots":http://www.5dots.net/ at techclub’s "Open Minijax 1.1":http://www.techclub-dc.com/techclub_minijax.html.  We played separate sets at Minijax 1.0, held at the Black Cat a while back, but this time around I’m lending my skills _cough_ to distorting, delaying, and otherwise fucking up the big 5’s hand drumming, which will be run through a mic and into one of our iBooks to meet its %(=caps)VST% fate before being forced upon attendee’s ears.  All this will take place Sunday, August 24th at Arlington’s "Galaxy Hut":http://www.galaxyhut.com/, an intimate space if ever there was one.  I think I also move back to campus that day, so things should be interesting.  But you should come.  Regardless of how long it’ll take you to get to Virginia.  Even my readers in Canada.  Holy cats, but do I ever have a lot of readers in Canada.