h1. The Porn Post
I was musing on whether or not to do a post that had been forming in my head about porn and "SuicideGirls":http://suicidegirls.com, and "this post":http://nslog.com/archives/2004/02/19/suicide_girls.php by Erik just spurred me to it.
It’s no shocker that the interweb and porn go hand-in-hand (or hand-in-elsewhere, depending on your kinks).  Nothing new really needs to be added to the subject here.  But increasingly, net.porn culture has become vogue, particularly in the blog circles I read.  Blogs like "Fleshbot":http://www.fleshbot.com are the tip of that, uh, iceberg.  A fascination with the culture of pornography has been a pervasive cultural feature since easily the 1970s, so this is hardly surprising; all I’m saying is that porn has been increasingly noticeable on the blog radar, or at least _my_ blog radar.  As in the rest of society, the porn “coverage” in the blog scene glamorizes the porn industry, ignoring or noting with glib irony the industry facts of drug addiction, disease, emotional and psychological distress, and generally broken people using and being used.  This ugliness, just as in the films and videos produced by the porn industry itself, is covered up by porn bloggers for our amusement and titillation.  And that’s fine – it’s those bloggers’ prerogative, just as its pornographers’ prerogative to make their content.
Most young men I know look at porn on the Internet.  I have for years, particularly when single.  I see it as a reality of being young and male (heck, probably just male, young or not): you’re going to seek out visual stimulation one way or another; I’m not going to speak for women.  But as porn has become an increasing part of the daily buzz in my news aggregator, the more disgusted I’ve been with the pornography I view.  Having a better sense of the lives of the people, particularly the women, behind those movies and photographs has basically ruined the fantasy of pornography for me.  I always had some sense of regret for endorsing, even if just via clickthroughs, the aforementioned ugliness of the porn industry.  But hearing about the fall of some coke-addled porn starlet on a glib weblog has turned that ignorable regret into mouse-stopping disgust.  I’ve quit looking at your “standard” porn, and quit reading Fleshbot and company.
Which brings me to SuicideGirls and Erik’s post.  He doesn’t find the girls on that site attractive, largely because of their tattoos and such.  There’s no accounting for taste and personal preference, but it’s not just the punk/goth/raver/pierced/modded/dreadlocked thing that makes me adore the SuicideGirls.  I find their content so attractive in large part because it seems non-exploitative; most of the girls seem to want to be there, and much of the photography is done by other women, or even as self-portraits.  And while I certainly don’t believe that women are incapable of exploiting other women, the nature of the photography on SuicideGirls and even the site’s community reinforce, essentially, the “harmlessness” of it all.  *For me, SuicideGirls isn’t just gorgeous indie-chicks-next-door naked, it’s guilt-free porn for men with a feminist conscience.*
I can understand where Erik is coming from, taste-wise.  I’d be just as open to a site with an exploitation-free photography style that featured less “alternative”-looking women (and no, that’s not Playboy; SG is a little harder than that).  But I’d like to know if there are any other guys out there who feel the same way: sick and tired of disgusting, exploitative mainstream porn, but not ready to give up the whole naughty pictures thing up for bible study and cornstarch (good for keepin’ down the urges, I hear).
Meantime, if you need me I’ll be over at SG, checkin’ out girls like "Asha":http://suicidegirls.com/girls/Asha/, a cybergoth’ed-out Indian by way of the UK whose self-professed most humbling moment was “seeing a full dancefloor of happy bouncy people while %(=caps)I DJ% digital hardcore.”  _Le sigh_.
Side note for SG fans: Statements like Asha’s above make up for the pithy, sarcastic answers most of the girls proffer for their profiles.  In all honesty, I could do without the LiveJournal style pseudo-blogs and discussion forums that SG offers, not to mention the general load of unfortunate hipster attitude that seems to be inextricable from any community catering to alt-kids.  It’s pleasantly ignorable, however, and there are plenty of sweet, affable girls and members making SG a nice place to be (looking at naked girls).
