h1. There’s Beauty In Her Posting Habits

I am considering seeking a mate via the blogosphere.
Yes, I’m mostly kidding with this consideration, but it doesn’t seem any more fatal than online dating.  And hey: it was successful for "Wendy and Joey":http://www.wendyandjoey.com/.

The likely physical distance between myself and my interest makes for wonderful escapism: “did she post today?  She did!  Can I read myself into this?  God but she writes like an angel.  Oh, if only I were _there!_”  One could carry himself through many a lonely wintery week in this bastard city on such fluff.

But in all seriousness, I’m actually surprised this hasn’t happened more, or maybe we just don’t hear about it.  For the generation for whom online dating has become accepted (“Where’d you two meet?” “Internet.  Where the hell else does anyone meet these days?”) – if not celebrated – it makes about as much sense for those of us uncomfortable with the meat-market creepiness of selecting your match from a list of thumbnails and saccharine answers to inane profile prompts.  A blog may only give you what someone is willing to share about herself, but it gives you _more_ of what she shares.  It is, arguably, a better set of data from which to gauge, presented in a less skewed form and forum.

But there’s no protocol for blog romance, in the social and technical senses.  On the social tip, it’s sleazy to write your favorite blogger and profess your interest; reader-author interaction usually stops at comments, and even there certain limits are typically observed.  On the technical end, there’s no way to easily find other bloggers who are, if you’ll excuse the crass phrase, “on the market,” though the worth of a mechanism to allow this (TrackLove?  LoveBack?  BabyGotBack?) is highly suspect.

I’d be interested to hear of any experiences – preferably as close to firsthand as possible – with finding romance via blogs.  If you’d be so kind as to pass this request on via some stealthy rebloggery I’d be much obliged.

Smitten, even.