h1. Slashdot Eloquence and the XFree Nightmare

It’s a rare thing indeed to see an insighftul comment on the spam-bucket of the open source and “geek” world, Slashdot.  It’s rarer still when someone has a disagreement within this community and can argue for more than a few lines without starting to sound like a flailing nerd in a middle school hallway fight.  But some brave Slashdotter voiced "his opinion":http://slashdot.org/comments.pl?sid=56401&amp;threshold=1&amp;commentsort=0&amp;tid=104&amp;tid=106&amp;mode=thread&amp;cid=5469153 on the miserable XFree/Xwindow display system that most of the Unix world (Linux, *BSD, Solaris, and optionally Mac %(=caps)OS X%) uses to get things on the screen.

Anyone who’s ever tried to get anything more than a command line running on a Unix system knows the horrors of XWindows (and yes, it is awkwardly singular on purpose): hideously complex configuration files, graphics card setups that crash before you’ve even installed your operating system, an utter inability to detect things like a different monitor.  These are the horrors of doing anything graphical in Unix, and to date only Mac %(=caps)OS X% has gotten it right by dumping XFree as the main means of getting information on the screen while offering a very elegant and simple to install version for the diehards.  I post this not to tout %(=caps)OS X%, because I do that enough already.

I post this for anyone who has wasted hours as a user, not even a programmer, fighting with this and other anachronisms of the Unix world.  To all of you: it’s broken.  Walk away, because the more people dependent on and clinging to a broken system, the painfully longer that system lives and sucks away at time, money, and energy.