h1. The Great OS X Browser Dilemma
So you want to browse the web on a Mac?
"OmniWeb":http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omniweb/ is a non-starter.  We don’t pay for browsers, and I don’t have the screen real estate for its thumbnail-tabs.  Despite using WebKit under the hood (like Safari), it manages to not be compatible with all the sites Safari is.  Freaky.
"Opera":http://www.opera.com/ may be free as of late, but no thanks.  It just  has this cheap Windows vibe.
"Safari":http://www.apple.com/safari/ is ever so _native_, but it’s seriously lacking in power-user features.  I basically can’t use Safari without "PithHelmet":http://culater.net/software/PithHelmet/PithHelmet.php and "Saft":http://haoli.dnsalias.com/Saft/index.html.  Unfortuately, Safari’s lack of a clear extension %(=caps)API% means those two step on each other’s toes all too frequently.  Safari routinely crashes when I’m checking Gmail or "SuicideGirls":http://www.suicidegirls.com, and that’s like my whole web right there.  Damn.
"Firefox":http://www.getfirefox.com is the seemingly obvious choice: mostly reliable, increasingly ubiquitous, featureful, and hugely extensible.  But it feels wrong on a Mac: the widgets are flat, the interface conventions are just slightly off, and it doesen’t take advantage of Cocoa offerings like system-wide spellcheck and Keychain password storage.  The 1.5 beta is nice, and faster than its predecessor, but not perfect.
"Camino":http://www.caminobrowser.org/ is purdy and Mac-like, with the same rendering engine as Firefox under the hood.  Seem ideal?  The problem is, Camino doesn’t have Firefox’s extensibility.  All those cool Firefox plugins like "AdBlock":http://adblock.mozdev.org and "GreaseMonkey":http://greaseblog.blogspot.com/?  Nope, can’t have ‘em.  You get the Mozilla engine, you get a Cocoa interface, and that’s it.  Plus, it’s not _exactly_ the same as Firefox under the hood; even the nightly builds still have the flicker-on-AJAX-update bug that the last Firefox release is cursed with.
So you want to browse the web on a Mac? My advice is to learn to love Safari’s paired-down feature set or learn to ignore Firefox’s non-nativeness.
Or, in short, you’re hosed.
