h1. Attraction, Race, And “I Saw You…” Ads
--- 
- |
Erik “NSLog();” Barzeski’s "question of the day today":http://nslog.com/archives/2004/01/14/qotd_race.php is “[a]re you as physically attracted to members of other races as you are to those of your own?”  I’m gonna take a shot at this.
The simple answer would be, “yes.”  In fact, having grown up with a Latin nanny and, according to my mother, being one to chase the little Asian girls around the schoolyard when I was a kid, my parents have both been surprised that I’ve dated nothing but white girls.  That relationship history has been out of coincidence, not explicit choice, of course.  Meanwhile my Mom was all but betting on me taking up with a _chica_.  Not a lot of Latinas in Bethesda, however.  Didn’t happen.
But my friends know that, in addition to "liking curvy women":http://www.al3x.net/mt/archives/000415.html, I’ve got a real thing for Indian/Pakistani girls, which has absolutely no Freudian explanation.  My university has a large Indian population but thus far it’s been nothing but frustrating for me.  Like most of the ethnic groups on campus Indian and Pakistani students seem to stick together despite what I perceive as an open and accepting “majority” (the campus isn’t particularly white).  I’ve seen maybe two Indian-Caucasian couples on campus.  The _desi_ girls seem to stick to guys of the same background, perhaps due to cultural pressure from their parents.
Given that I so prefer voluptuous women it was suggested to me that perhaps I should look more towards dating black girls, as they tend to be more curvy than white girls (“even white boys got to say…”).  And while I find many black women attractive I’m sometimes put off by differences that I see as being more cultural than racial.  Many of the black girls from in and around Baltimore have (understandbly, having to deal with that hostile urban environment) somewhat abrasive personalities, but the same holds true for students of other backgrounds from the area.  Some of the West African girls around campus, however, are devastatingly attractive.  Around DC, black women in their mid-to-late twenties and onward are better dressed and more attractive than their white counterparts by a longshot.
But when dealing with raw attraction, illogical and outside the scope of important considerations like personality, it keeps coming back to curves for me.  Finding black girls with generous hips and bosoms isn’t difficult, and for that reason I must admit that a voluptuous white girl is still more likely to turn my head, if only for the lamentable rarity of her kind.  My preference for the _zaftig_ also puts Asian girls at a disadvantage in my book, generally lithe as they are.  But again, these preferences crumble fast when confronted with a nice smile, a good sense of humor, or any of the other wonderful things that make up a great person.
That said, it was suggested to me that I game the “I Saw You” ads made available online by my favorite WiFi-equipped "coffee shop":http://www.trystdc.com/ in DC and post an ad for my ideal women in hopes that someone fits the description and responds.  I wouldn’t consider doing it, but just for fun I imagine the ad would read:
- |
bq. 
You: voluptuous Indian beauty working on Mac laptop, headphones blaring alternately Delarosa &#38; Asora and Coheed &#38; Cambria, sipping _genmaicha_ while I tried to figure out how to approach you.  Me: that really cute guy with the iBook.  (You know, the *really* cute one?)  IM me.

- p. Oh well, a guy can dream, can’t he?  The truth is, all preferences aside, it’s fun for the first time in my life to be single and flirty and gauging the intricacies of attraction.  You can have your ideals, but in my limited experience life seems to hand you whatever/whomever it feels like dealing, and you’re usually so bowled over by it all that preferences fly out the window.
So black girls?  White girls?  Indian girls?  Asian girls?  Latin girls?  How about just "girls, girls girls":http://www.elyrics4u.com/g/girls_girls_girls_jay_z.htm.  Jigga what.

