h1. Where Should I Go?

I am thinking seriously of leaving my school, "%(=caps)UMBC%":http://www.umbc.edu/.  I need to leave this place between Baltimore and Nowhere, MD.  I need to leave this place where nobody makes friends outside their student organizations and their fraternities-without-frat-houses, where they eat lunch in groups and commute home alone in the evening, the campus grounds left starving for presence and activity.  I can sit out at night by the beautiful man-made pond where the geese swim when it’s warm and nobody walks by for hour stretches.  It’s not that it’s a bad place, or that I cannot learn what I need to learn here.  It’s that if I’m going to do this college thing, where they tell me I’m to expand my horizons and meet people and acculturate, I should do it some place with culture and people and horizon expansion mechanisms.  I’m a depressive geek who’s never had a big circle of friends and even _I’m_ having trouble at this smallish, technical, trying-not-be-a-commuter campus; it’s much worse for more the extroverted Scott, the one good friend I’ve made here, who also has a mind to leave.  It’s an odd campus.

I aim to study Information Technology Policy.  That means a prospective school needs to have a passible Computer Science/Information Systems program and a quite respectable Political Science/Public Policy program.  It would help if there were resources in Information Security.  My grades are okay, but my resume is better.  I’d go pretty much anywhere in the country.  Or elsewhere.

Where should I go?