h1. Tired of the Copyfight

After miring myself in issues of Intellectual Property (IP), Digital Rights Management (DRM), and file-sharing/Peer-to-Peer (P2P) for the better part of the last three years, I've grown exceedingly tired of it (and acronyms, but that's another matter).  It's not the issues themselves that I find wearing, but the manner in which they're debated, and the attitudes of the parties involved in this debate.  It's become, like most contentious issues, utterly polarized and markedly ignorant.
I was enjoying the lovely design and coverage of these issues over at "Copyblight":http://www.hi-brow-fi.com/copyblight/, until Zach posted the site's "Mission Statement":http://www.hi-brow-fi.com/copyblight/archives/000006.html.  Enjoyment turned to disappointment and frustration as I read the tenets of his pro-file-sharing argument, assertions I've seen over and over again:

bq. "ALL MUSIC IS FOLK MUSIC. Regardless of quality, complexity, formality, or any other external rubric, all music is made by people."

No.  Just because music is "made by people" does not make music "folk music."  We know "what folk music is":http://www.coe.ufl.edu/courses/edtech/Vault/Folk/DEFINITION.HTM, and despite some similarities in the generalized definition of folk music to all other types of music, we recognize that folk music is typically that of small groups of people, played on traditional instruments, simplistic, and designed to be handed down _within that small group_.  To ignore "any other external rubric" is to ignore the reality that much music is very purposed in its creation to pander to the tastes of the majority, not a small group.  The music being fought over in the IP wars is, by and large, pop music.  Many independent publishers of less popular music freely encourage the sharing and even dissection of the music they sell.  There's plenty of music out there that is designated as free, but this argument uses false grounds to assume that all music, even music explicitly created as a commodity, should be free.  Which brings us to the notion that

bq. "ALL RECORDINGS ARE ETHNOGRAPHIC DOCUMENTS. Every recording has an intrinsic value as document, irrespective of its value as music. [...] As such,MUSIC DEMANDS TO BE HEARD. When recordings are seen as documents of the cultural environment in which we all are existing, it is clear that every individual should enjoy easy access to them. It is totally insane to deny an individual access to her own cultural artifacts simply because she happens not to have $16.99."

This thinking is the product of too much cultural studies and too little economics.  If an individual decides that, say, Radiohead is an inherent part of her culture, she has quite a dilemma to grapple with.  Because Radiohead is not, in reality, a part of the culture that surrounds her.  She cannot see them singing their songs by the old oak tree down the road on moonlit country nights because that's __not how  it fucking works__.  Radiohead has become a part of this girl's culture because a record label invested in the studio time, media production, advertising, and publicity necessary to make said girl familiar with the band.  No matter how important Radiohead's songs are to this girl, it doesn't change the fact that the music is a commodity.

Let's set aside reality for a moment and say that we accept this "music demands to be heard" argument.  When in history have people been guaranteed access to their own "cultural artifacts?"  We pay taxes that support public museums, but not all works of cultural import are in these free museums.  Access to your own culture is not unconditional, and this is no better demonstrated then by P2P file-sharing systems. No matter how critical that Radiohead song may be to you, Napster, the oft-touted musical "Library of Alexandria,"  was not ensured to have it.  P2P is a pot luck, not a definitive index of all music.  You are not owed the commodities you've decided are inherent to your culture.  You pay for them.

As you can see, I'm not only tired of this debate, but a bit cranky.  I want people to realize that they have to pay for the things people say they have to pay for, and that there are many alternatives that are legitimately free.   I support Zach's decision to charge nothing for digital copies of the music his label puts out.  My labelmates and I have discussed as much ourselves, but have not reached a decision.  I just wish his arguments reflected the realities of the marketplace.  The freedom that allows him to charge nothing for his music is the same freedom that allows the big labels to charge exorbitant prices, and customers will decide what they prefer.  Median steps like Apple's Music Store demonstrate a positive convergence towards the center of this issue by all parties.  Blows like that are, these days, all that keep my eye towards the ring of the copyfight.