h1. Upcoming Music Events Around DC/MD/VA

This coming Friday "The Supreme Imperial":http://www.thehush.net/directions.htm hosts "World Domination":http://www.thehush.net/maskb1.png, a DJ battle of international sounds.  The details, straight from the promo email:

  6 DJ’s representing 6 countries duking it out for WORLD DOMINATION.
  Each DJ will be selecting music from the country they represent. Hell yes!!
  Jason Urick ("oncetwicesound":http://www.oncetwicesound.com/) as wacky pop-electric noise JAPAN
  "Richard Chartier":http://www.3particles.com/ (12k/LINE/TREATMENT/FILLER) as neue wave minimal techno pop angry GERMANY
  Matt Walter (Underground) as indie blissed out UK
  Justin Lucas as hot sassy BRAZIL
  Curling Sandwiches as psychedelic 60s CAMBODIA
  Ryan Boddy as dubby smooth JAMAICA

This is sure to be a blast, and I fully intend to rep my boy Richard.
Sunday marks the third "Techclub OpenMinijax":http://www.techclub-dc.com/ event (version 1.2), again held at Virginia’s Galaxy Hut.  I’m pretty "CraigDots":http://www.5dots.net/ will be unleashing a hellish storm of noise from his iBook, as has become customary.  I, on the other hand, will not be performing this time around.  But OpenMinijax is a great event, a sort of “open amp night” for electronic musicians using kit that hooks up to nothing more complicated than a headphone jack.  Sure, it’s mostly laptop musicians, but we also get some GameBoy rockers and circuitbender jammers.

I’ll happily drive interested readers in the DC/MD/VA area to either event, or meet up there if you’ve got your own transportation.  Is it a little odd to just offer to hang out with a blogger (or reader) you’ve never met?  A little less so than somebody whose thoughts and perspectives you have no idea about, I guess.  I’m just trying to meet new people, so let me know if you’re interested in these shows.