h1. Can Markets Fix Information Security?

An unavoidable realization when working in information security is that youre profiting from decades of mistakes.

Whether youre playing defense or offense, one way or another you pay your rent thanks to the misconceptions, ragged implementations, and carelessness of the generations of technologists that came before you.  The best hackers on the planet are the best because theyre close to those mistakes and the technologies that allowed for them.

No surprise, then, that pretty much anyone with a long career in information technology understands that "overhaul":http://www.wired.com/news/print/0,1294,68004,00.html, not incremental patching, is the only definitive solution to the security woes that plague us.

Its a losing battle.  Such a radical overhaul will likely never occur.  Hell, we can barely contemplate a global move to IPv6.  Even if we collectively decided to move on to Computing 2.0 our conceptual scope cant account for all potential vulnerabilities.  Its the human condition: were all but blind to faults at the time of a creative act.  When it comes to something as complex as computers even hindsight isnt 20/20; unforeseen vulnerabilities in old software crops up every day.

So, why?  Id argue that the economics of security dont work out.  Right now, for every white hat making dollars off protecting a network theres a black hat with more to gain from breaking into that network.

Now think beyond one network.  Spread information security liability and consequences across all industries, across any portion of the global economy that depends on networks to function (ie, pretty much all of it).  Do we have more to gain by collectively sponsoring security initiatives?  Of course.  Will international governments, militaries, private industries, and non-profits ever coordinate rather than compete?  Thats a rhetorical question best left unanswered, suffice to say that to date, competition has not left us more secure.

Yeah, I said it.  Im as pro-market as next post-libertarian, but markets dont create security.  Yet.

Decades ago, people said the same thing about markets and environmentalism.  They said that polluting was always cheaper than being green, so industry would continue to pollute.  But through advances in technology and revolutionary economic ideas like "selling pollution credits":http://www.texasep.org/html/air/air_1nfa_mkt.html, industry and environmentalism are no longer polar opposites.

Something similar needs to happen in information security before we see substantive improvement.  A combination of technological overhauls and economic refactoring will make security cheap and economically efficient.  Its nice to see that people are thinking about the technical end, but Im not sure whos thinking about the economic end.

Talk to me if you know, or if you have thoughts on this subject.  Comments are enabled for a change.