h1. Don't Know What'cha Heard About Me…

...but'cha can't get a dollar outta me.  'Cause I spent it all on a camphone.  Kidding.  Actually, Verizon really seems to have gotten their stuff together: their sales people were fast, friendly, and efficient and the camphone was discounted even for lil' ol' not-extending-my-contract me. So I do, in fact, have some dollars, but you still can't get one outta me.   The phone is hype, a technicolor beast of feature excess and niceties.  Polyphonic ringtones?  Heck yeah!  Most of the MIDIs out there are from pop songs, so I'm alternating between "Lovefool" by The Cardigans, "Close To Me" by the Cure, and "I Need a Girlfriend" by P-Diddy.  I know, it's ridiculous, but it amuses me.  More seriously: not sure whether to moblog with it right here on this blog or just feature some thumbnails from a dedicated "offsite" moblog.  Got a preference?  Post a comment.

Other things you might have heard about me: Atkins and exercise seems to be shedding weight at a respectable enough pace, relative to my slug-slow metabolism; who'da thought?  I've been totally without anything metal in "my ears":http://www.al3x.net/mt/archives/000198.html the past two weeks for the first time in many years.  Feels pretty good, actually, and the scar on my left ear is healing up.  No more piercings for this al3x, it seems.  "My hair":http://www.al3x.net/mt/archives/000198.html is almost at a length appropriate for a decent, non-swishy-suggesting 'do.  Once all that stuff settles down and my vanity is appeased I'll replace my current sorry picture with some classy camphone-n-mirror self portraits.

Summer school is over and I'm working full time for "these cats":http://www.sliceoftangerine.net/, not doing anything remotely wireless-related, actually.  Sexxi as a stand-alone blog tool is kaput, but I'm working on a Moveable Type plugin with its key features; more on that in another post.  And speaking of MT, you'll notice my blogroll is now chock full of infosec sites, so check 'em out if you like your beer cold and your information secure (pretty much just the last one, really).
A little farther down the road with me: I've got my own private room in an apartment suite shared with a couple of my roommates from this past school year.  It'll be a nice change after last semester's sharing of a cramped dorm room with another guy and his girlfriend who pretty much moved in.  Hey, I grew up on a college campus by and large, so you can take your "all part of the college experience" lecture and "StuffIt":http://www.stuffit.com/mac/index.html.  Shortly before I move back to campus in late August I'm playing a show with "5dots":http://www.5dots.net/ (collaboration strictly, as I've "bowed out":http://www.al3x.net/mt/archives/000209.html).  And, eschewing performance for passive consumption, I've got two tickets to Radiohead 'round then (and "no one to go with":http://www.al3x.net/mt/archives/000192.html).  But I'm primarily psyched about having my own room at school; finally, I can _not_ put up posters just the way I like!

I think all that should hold my stalkers in good stead (and I know you're out there).