h1. What A Closed iPhone Means
So the "iPhone":http://www.apple.com/iphone/ is probably going to be "closed to third-party applications":http://www.tuaw.com/2007/01/09/iphone-will-not-allow-user-installable-applications/.    p. Thats not good.  "Merlin Mann talks about why":http://www.43folders.com/2007/01/11/osx-app-developers-iphone/:bq.         p. There's the potential here for some serious George Jetson shit and it would be a pity not to capitalize on that as early as possible    p. Wolf Rentzsch "suggests you file a bug about it":http://rentzsch.com/cocoa/iphoneIndieAppDevelopment.  I did.  Why not?  Its _broken_.p. But what would a closed iPhone mean?  It means the opening is in the browser.    p. The browser on the iPhone is, essentially, Safari.  I have a similar browser right now on my Nokia %(=caps)E60%, and its hot.  Like Safari developer Dave Hyatt "says":http://webkit.org/blog/?p=87:bq.         p. There is less and less need for a special dumbed down version of the web just for mobile devices; instead we can have a single device-independent web that??s presented in the best possible way on a variety of devices."    p. If your mobile browser can do everything your desktop browser can do, you can run fancy web applications.  Web applications are taking the place of many desktop applications.  So does "Scott":http://blog.vulnerableminds.com/ need a to-do list app/widget for his iPhone if he can get to "Remember The Milk":http://www.rememberthemilk.com/?  Does a designer need an asset management app if she can get to "Fluxiom":http://www.fluxiom.com/?    p. The point being: if you cant develop directly for the iPhone, youre not cut off from delivering a rich experience to its user base if you can build web applications.  Thats big.    p. The browser is a constraining portal to the iPhones full potential and no substitute for Apple opening the device up.  But its a start.
