h1. You Know My Life

Friday: code for "work":http://www.picnet.net/.  Drive down to VA to get audio kit from "5dots":http://www.5dots.net/ and hit the "%(=caps)DC 2600%":http://www.dc2600.info/ meeting with "Phil":http://www.timeporn.net/.  Ran into some old timers, some (relatively) new regulars.  Slow meeting, but some good conversation in there.  Get home around 3am.

Saturday: tried to record the vocals to those lyrics I mentioned the other day.  I didn’t hate my voice, and was actually fairly inspired melody-wise, but the %(=caps)USB% audio interface I used had terrible distortion on it and the vocals were unusable.  Also the room I was recording in had too much fan noise.  Went back to the apartment and coded for work, making great wonderful leaps.  Went out to "Sonar":http://www.sonar.us/, alone, to see "%(=caps)DJ DB%":http://www.dj-db.com/ and had the first really good time at a dance night I’ve had in a long time, basically since I’ve had to dance alone.  DB played his superb blend of jungle over an excellent two-hour set, never getting locked into one sub-genre or style, nor playing more than just the right anthems (was quite happy to hear that “by the power of Ra!” track, not to mention just a couple minutes of the “We Want Your Soul” remix).  Left dripping sweat and very happy.  Got home around 3am.

Sunday (today): woke up a little stiff from from the previous evening’s booty shaking.  Burned a few extra "Fedora":http://fedora.redhat.com/ Core 1 CDs, got some Atkins-friendly food to have for lunch later, and went over to the campus Engineering building for the "%(=caps)UMBC% Linux User Group":http://lug.umbc.edu/’s semesterly Installfest.  Spent over six hours handing many, many installs (30+?) on a variety of hardware.  Fun, rewarding, but tiring.  Had dinner at the local Double T diner with some campus friends who helped out at the Installfest.  Talked geek, felt good.  Expect to be in bed well before 3am.

Tomorrow (Monday): code for work all day until class in the evening.  Very excited about this code.  Also, sorting out nasty Apache problems, which I enjoy thoroughly.

It’s a life, and it’s a living.