h1. They Stopped Calling It Rendezvous

A while back I was quoted in a "Wired News article":http://www.wired.com/news/print/0,1294,61177,00.html about iTunes library sharing.  I had totally forgotten about that until this evening.

I parked myself in Murky VA, my lackluster de facto "third place," and opened up iTunes.  Before I hopped on Bassdrive or another streaming station I had a look at the sole shared iTunes music library in a sea of PowerBooks: maria's music.  I browsed.  *What a fucking music collection*.  Not in size, not that many albums really.  But content-wise, things I've not seen outside of, well, my collection: multiple Muslimguaze albums, scads of shoegaze and post-rock, Angelo Badalamenti's soundtrack to _Twin Peaks_, for fucksakes.

It had to belong to the girl with dark hair by the counter.  I saw her when I got my coffee.  Took note, lovely.  Her.  Her?

There is no music on my PowerBook.  I offloaded my library to a drive that is to remain perpetually hooked up to my new Mac mini, serving away at home.  Nonetheless, I shared my empty library out under the name maria i sweat your music collection &lt;3.

I waited.  I listened to selections from her library: Low, Manual.  And then the sound skipped.  I flipped to iTunes.  Her library title had changed: try_the_new_dalek.

A conversation began, conducted solely by library title, and it continued for the next couple of hours. At one point I offered my AIM screenname, identified myself as the kid with the 3 on the back of his neck.  She didn't talk to me online.  She didn't leave her table to talk to me in the coffee shop.  I didn't dare approach her, personal space and all that.  But we kept talking.

She noted, at one point, that I was thieving her music via "ourTunes":http://ourtunes.sf.net.  She noted the application specifically, and by that URL; perhaps she had a clear view of my PowerBook's display?  We exchanged other music recommendations, commented on shows.  i don't know art but i know what i like.  But of course.

And then: sorry gotta go.  The girl in corner with dark hair packs up and bustles the hell out of there, probably afraid I'd just _have_ to talk to her.  Don't call it social technology.

maria: I have 703.4MB of your music.  Beautiful, sad music.

Shared taste means nothing, I tell myself.