h1. When We're Moving, and Why

We're moving to San Francisco on Monday, April 16th.

We pack our stuff (books and household items; all the furniture is being given away) into a shipping container over the preceding weekend.  Then we get on a plane, cat stowed in cargo, and go.  There's an apartment waiting for us in "Hayes Valley":http://www.sfgate.com/traveler/guide/sf/neighborhoods/hayesvalley.shtml.  We might actually be crazy enough to drive to the local Ikea across the Bay Bridge that same afternoon.  If we don't, we won't have any furniture.  Our stuff arrives a while later.

That's the "when" and the "how" of this move.  The "why" is, first and foremost and as previously mentioned, to work at "Obvious":http://www.obvious.com.  "Twitter":http://twitter.com is growing rapidly and we're a small team; trying to keep up with the other engineers from across the country, all the phone calls and brainstorming and small crises, is a challenge.  I've more or less been living on Pacific time since working out there several weeks ago, and I'm tired of it.  My head's already there.

There's a broader question of "why," though, given that: a) I already lived in San Francisco once and b) T and I really liked Portland, Oregon way more.  The answer is more or less that there's _more_ in San Francisco, even if it's not all _better_.  There's more neighborhoods, more weekend trips in easy driving distance, more people, more shows, more possibilities, more going on.  More than DC, and way more than Portland.  We really want a change, and San Francisco delivers on the change front.

It won't be too long before we're back to visit on the East Coast, though.  More about that soon.