h1. Speechblogging

It's 8 PM EST and I'm sitting in my dorm room watching MSNBC.  I'm gonna blog this thing, sort of play-by-play.

*8:01* – Prez at the podium.  Recap of history.  Bush clearly reading off teleprompter.  Odd wavering in his voice.

*8:03* – "The regime has [...]  It has…"  Neutered and unspecific references rather than pointing directly at Saddam.

*8:04* – "US has sovereign authority."  References Congress vote from last year.

*8:05* – MSNBC shows Marines in Kuwait watching.  "This is not a question of authority, it is a question of will."

*8:06* – "[Iraq] will not disarm so long as Saddam Hussein holds power."  Ah, there we go with the specifics.  "These governments don't share our resolve [to "enforce peace"]."

*8:07* – "The UN has not lived up to its responsibilities."  Saddam and sons have 48 hours to leave or military action.

*8:08*- Promises to Iraqi people.  "We will help you to build a new Iraq that is prosperous and free [...] The day of your liberation is near."

*8:09* – Warning to Iraqi soldiers:  "Do not destroy Iraqi oil wells [...] War crimes will be punished."

*8:11* – "Our government is on heightened watch."  News noted before speech that Terror Alert has just been moved to Code Orange.

*8:12* – "Saddam Hussein and his terrorist allies."  Proof of such allies?

*8:14* – "Free nations have a duty to unite against the violent."  I don't want to say ironic, but…

I need to mull this over.  But there you go.  More frequent blogging starts now, by the way.