h1. Obligatory New Year Post
I spent my New Year’s Eve wandering from one part of DC to the next with Phil.  At first we thought we looking for some place to go, maybe a bar that wouldn’t card him.  But the night was crisp and the streets grew quiet as revelers poured into their destinations, and we realized we weren’t after any such place.  We walked to the harbor in Georgetown, took a bench, waxed existential, and watched the Kennedy Center’s lights in the water of the Potomac.  When happy shouts echoed from a nearby restaurant we hadn’t even realized the time, and my mobile claimed it was already two minutes after midnight.
I don’t remember where I was last New Year’s.  With Craig and Brittany?  Alone in my parent’s basement, where I lived over winter break?  It didn’t matter.  At the time I had spent the previous six months in an indulgent sea of loss, and I wasn’t ready to feel anything else.  It didn’t matter where I was, or what day it was, or that it was a new year.
In 2004 I left school, got a job, got a place with Phil, took a very different job, moved into a place of my own, and was promoted at said new job just before the holidays.  I moved forward from the aforementioned loss and met several people, for better and worse but never without learning something.  I made new friends and became closer to old ones, and got along well with my family.  By most measures it was a good year, and I am grateful.
A new year seems to be a fine time to shift a blog around, and many folks I read are doing as much.  Since reinstating this blog I’ve written very little, hardly anything of substance or interest.  So while I’m tempted to make another sweeping change here at this site and restructure how I offer you my thoughts, I haven’t yet decided what to do.  On the backend I may very well write my own blog engine in "Ruby on Rails":http://www.rubyonrails.org, as WordPress and %(=caps)PHP% are becoming irksome to me.  That will have little or no effect on what you see here, however.  I may refile old posts into more accurate categories.
I still intend to get the group music blog (that I have nearly all the pieces in place for) up and running, and perhaps the new year is a good motivator for that.  I would have posted quite a bit more here if I wasn’t saving my thoughts on music for this new site.
Were that I had something more to offer for a date on which introspection and speculation is the order.  I have few thoughts and fewer feelings at my disposal, not a reflection of the passing year but instead an odd function of my state of mind these last several months.  Be it the chill of winter slowing my veins or something else entirely, I apologize, and wish I could promise you more soon in sincerity.
The first of January has never been a marker by which I measure my life, but best of luck to those of you who seize the day for change.  
I fall alseep tonight to a kind of mantra: it’s never the future.
