h1. Mineral Water Mindjob

A friend says everyone should be a connoisseur of something.  I agree, and have decided to be a connoisseur of mineral water.  I think it's a good choice, personally.  I love the stuff, it's relatively cheap, good for you, and attainable.  Mineral water is pretentious (it is gourmet _water_, after all), but it doesn't have the evil robber baron vibe of cigars, scotch, or other commonly connoisseured luxuries.  And while everyone fancies themselves a connoisseur of wine, another friend points out that few actually have the breadth of knowledge to truly be vino-heads. Mineral water seems an attainable thing to be a connoisseur of.

Or so I thought.  A look through "Mineral Waters of the World":http://www.mineralwaters.org/ broadened, expanded, and ultimately blew my mind, at least as far as a mind can be blown by mineral water.  There is an astounding selection and detail in the mineral water world, hardly rivaling wine or cigars but still quite impressive.  But I see that breadth as a enjoyable challenge, not an imposing deterrent, and thus I know I have picked the right luxury for which to cultivate an expert palate.

If I were a true "blogwhore":http://www.tonypierce.com/blog/bloggy.htm (_just kidding Tony_) I would ask dedicated readers to fund my newfound passion with PayPal donations or bottles of the good stuff itself.  I am not, however, and I arch a sinister corporate eyebrow at bloggers who ask for anything more than bandwidth expense contributions. How about this: if there's a water you really like, tell me about it.  And not your usual Evian/Pallegrino kind of stuff either.  Obscure water.  Pretentious water.  Water that's more Euro than a Fellini film festival in Prague hosted by a chain-smoking Parisian who lives off university pensions and his banker mistress from Luxembourg dressed in this season's Armani who both refuse both the idea of a commonwealth and genetically modified foods on vague grounds that you just couldn't understand being a boorish American outsider.  Water like that.  Tell me about it.