h1. The Dating Paradox
To say that this "n+1 piece on dating":http://www.nplusonemag.com/dating.html is provocative is an understatement.  It’s not scholarly per se, but it’s not strictly an opinion piece and it’s certainly no advice column.  Whatever it is, I’m all about it.  I’m having to refrain from quoting vast swaths, or echoing its sentiments nearly verbatim.
My overwhelming sentiment after reading the piece is that modern dating is analogous to modern education: a deeply flawed, ritualized institution that everyone suffers through because _it’s just what people do_.  Neither institution is completely broken; people still fall in love and get married, and people still graduate and find jobs.  But that doesn’t mean we’re going about either in the best and most humane way.
I’ve learned to enjoy dating about as much as I can.  An average date is about as entertaining for me as, say, seeing a halfway-decent movie.  But, just as I would choose reading a good novel or making music over watching a so-so film, I’d rather be in a meaningful relationship than trapped in the stasis-loop of auditing evermore potential partners.  Which bring us to the bit I will stoop to quoting:
bq. 
“The only way to stop dating is to fall in love. But how, under conditions of dating, would this be possible? You are affected by all the dates you?ve been on, the relationships you?ve had.”

That the author offers no solution to this paradox is telling.  And really, falling in love isn’t always a solution.  What if he or she doesn’t love you back?  What if you fall out of love?  It never, ever ends.
In a year-end roundup of ideas for the next century (the publication and author depressingly escapes me), one prediction was that a sort of polyamory would come to be accepted.  Not polyamory in the Mormon or tribal sense, but a gradual cultural acceptance that people can and do love many other people, often simultaneously.  Some societies -- the French come to mind -- have an informal culture of mistresses and lovers that amounts to a tacit, unspoken acceptance of this aspect of human nature.  Embracing polyamory doesn’t sit well with the strict monogamist in me, but it’s more of a solution to the “dating problem” than I’ve heard elsewhere.
Link via quite possibly my favorite daily read, "Arts &#38; Letters Daily":http://www.aldaily.com/.
