h1. Steve’s Bounty

I refreshed my browser endlessly on MacMerc and the rest all PST-morning, and though the first hour of Steve’s keynote was a little slow (to read about), I think I join the happy throng of Mac zealots elated with Apple’s MacWorld San Fransisco announcents this morning.  Spoiler predictions and rumors aside, it’s a great crop of toys.  My takes:

* "iPod Shuffle":http://www.apple.com/ipodshuffle/ – cute as a button, perfect for the gym or people more into singles and hits than the exhaustive record-mongering that’s got my 40GB iPod bursting at the seams.  I don’t know that I’d buy one, but at $99 for the 512MB and $150 for the 1GB it’s almost worth it just to have a stylish Apple-made thumbdrive.

* "iLife ‘05":http://www.apple.com/ilife/ – no comment, really.  Video is totally not my thing, so I’ve got no comment about iMovie.  Never more than poked around the thing.  GarageBand is fun, but it’s not how I like to make digital music.  I use iPhoto now and again, and that looks like it’s got some shiny new newness.  Not gonna shell out for it, but iLife looks good on the whole.

* "iWork":http://www.apple.com/iwork/ – I’ve enjoyed using Keynote, but it needed some work, and it looks like it got it.  As for Pages, I almost never fire up a full-blown word processor anymore, but it looks gorgeous, like MS Office got InDesign’s supermodel step-sister knocked up at some champagne -soaked house party in Beverly Hills it managed to crash (‘cos seriously, who’s inviting Office?).  I almost wish I needed to do, y’know, word processing, just to give it a spin.  Maybe I’ll do up a fake invitation to a baby shower and send it to everyone I don’t like.

* "Mac mini":http://www.apple.com/macmini/ – Sure, we heard it was coming, but that doesn’t make it any less hott [sic].  Well, the skimpy RAM and tiny hard drive almost does, but the economics of the specs are understandable.  And sure, it could’ve been the iTivo king hell set-top media convergence box.  While we’re at it, it’s puzzling that Apple didn’t introduce a more affordable display, as I can see some potential buyers aghast at Apple’s own display prices and irked at having to go from their local Apple Store to the CompUSA down the road to get a cheap off-brand 17” LCD.  But at the end of that littany of minor complaints: *c’mon.*  This thing is _busted sweet_.  $499!  Never again will I have to endure some asshat jibing a well-meaning Mac evangelist with “well, uh, sure they work well and stuff, but, uh, they’re too expensive!  Yeah!  Snob!”  And let me probably not be the first to say: an armful of these + "Xgrid":http://www.apple.com/acg/xgrid/ + "Xcode":http://www.apple.com/macosx/tiger/xcode.html = _best distributed homebrew pr0n scraper e-var_.  Or, y’know, crunching numbers to cure cancer.  That too.

I hope the market takes to these like they have to the iPod, and that this is a banner year for Apple.  Awesome job, guys n’ gals.