h1. Game Theory
Every few years my computer hardware purchases line up with the ever-increasing requirements of PC games.  My new MacBook Pro, as it turns out, has more than enough juice to run the latest and greatest in 3D distractions.  I couldn’t think of a better reason to try  "Boot Camp":http://www.apple.com/macosx/bootcamp/, so several days ago I loaded up Windows %(=caps)XP SP2% and dove into a few recent games.
It turns out that there’s a reason I haven’t been a regular (that is, daily or bi-daily) gamer since I was about 11: games kinda bore me.  Or, if they don’t actively bore me, I feel like my time has been frittered away after the fact.
The godly power bestowed on me in _Black &#38; White 2_ couldn’t keep me engaged.  Navigating derilict buildings and getting in fistfights with psychotic junkies in _Condemned_ was only fun for a few minutes.  The hair-raising tenor of _F.E.A.R._ couldn’t get me over the fact that I was walking through level after _Doom_-derivitave level, blowing away identical soldiers like it was 1993.
For all the production value and cinematics of the games I tried the experience just couldn’t captivate me.  When I’ve really enjoyed gaming in the last few years it’s been as a social activity: _Soul Caliber 2_ tournaments in the dorm room or playing through all of _Halo 2_ in cooperative mode with a friend.  Yes, buddies tried to get me into MMORPGs like _World of Warcraft_, but “virtually social” just isn’t the same as social-social.  PCs don’t seem terribly conducive to the type of gaming I enjoy.
Though a game console is a typical bachelor purchase, in my case it’s an investment I wouldn’t bother making unless I had a significant other who’d enjoy an evening in conquering virtual enemies in two-player mode.  Gaming, for me, is all about shared experience and healthy competition.
Needless to say, I wiped Windows XP off my MacBook.  Boot Camp worked flawlessly both coming and going.  Henceforth, my multi-OS needs will be met by "Parallels Workstation":http://www.parallels.com/ while I wait for a Mac version of "VMware":http://www.vmware.com.  Not that I frequently find myself in need of Windows.  Ugh.
I intend to put my reclaimed free time and hard drive space to better, "DJ-related":http://www.seriousdjs.net uses.
