h1. Selection 3 Tonight: Live Dubby Sexy Tech-House Mix!
If you haven’t taken the time to check out my show thusfar this semester, I can’t entirely blame you.  I’ve had some nice selections, but not proper mixes, nothing to write blog nor home about.  Tonight, however, is worth tuning in for.
I’ve spent many an hour I didn’t really have putting together this mix in Ableton Live, the technical details of which I’ve praised and bemoaned on this blog over the past weeks.  Mapping out tracks in Live is painstaking work, much more so than marking up a crate of records with BPMs and cue points on the label.  The results, however, are more than worth it, as I can blend together multiple tracks, effects, samples, and more without thinking too much about beatmatching – that work is done upfront.
However, the conditions for tonight’s mix are less than ideal.  I have no multichannel audio interface (yet) with which to cue/prelisten, and I have no hardware %(=caps)MIDI% controller for extra hands-on tweaking.  The first is more of an issue than the latter, as it leaves me “mixing blind,” but I’m confident enough in my track order that I believe the transitions will be clean.
Of course, for all my fretting about technical details, all you guys care about is the music.  I’ve got an hour of smooth, sexy, funky, dubby tech-house selections for your ears tonight.  If you’re a fan of the genre then I need say no more, but if you’re not, you will be after this mix.  This sort of tech-house fits somewhere between loungey downtempo and dancefloor house, though it’s more likely to have you nodding in your chair than shaking your ass.  It’s relaxing atmospheric music, and while I’ve said this about other styles, it’s perfect for sipping a cocktail or necking with a favorite SO.  You’ll find something to like about it, no doubt.
*Tune in from 8 – 9PM %(=caps)EST% on "%(=caps)WMBC%":http://wmbc.umbc.edu/*.  I’ll be recording this mix inside Live and making an %(=caps)MP3% free of DJ chatter available for those of you who can’t catch the show or want to keep this mix around.
As a side note, Selection 3 will henceforth only air on Tuesdays at the 8 – 9PM %(=caps)EST% timeslot.  %(=caps)WMBC% doesn’t receive enough “RPM” (electronic) radio promos to keep us in fresh selections, and I’d rather bring you guys a quality Live mix once a week rather two so-so iTunes mixes twice a week.
