h1. “Disaster Action Kid” About to Drop – Peep the Art
--- 
- "p. You should "look":http://www.5dots.net/news/archives/000023.html at the album art for "Adjective Records":http://www.adjectiverecords.com/’ first release, “Disaster Action Kid” by "5dots":http://www.5dots.net/ because its really really good.  I founded and “run” Adjective (in the loosest sense of the term) with Craig/5dots and "Brittany":http://www.acesulfamek.com/, and we couldn’t more excited about this first release.  Well, Brittany is pretty excited about knitting, probably more so than the release, but Craig and I are excited.  In fact, things on the whole for Adjective are going great: the album has come together in sound, style and quality; the label is getting material from prospective artists almost weekly; and 5dots has really come into his own as a performer, as evidenced by his set at this past Sunday’s "OpenMinijax":http://www.techclub-dc.com/.
I’m in the album credits for “telling [5dots] what sucks,” and I’ll admit that I imparted my share of criticism when Craig was first exploring the sound of this release.  But for my criticism, or perhaps in spite of it, he’s really found a groove – a gritty, distorted, jiggy, playful, and genuinely engaging groove.  So my criticism comes to an end, as I’m really happy to have my name associated with this release.  This thing is gonna drop like a firebomb.  Fo’ real.
I’ll save my negative comments for the demos we’ve been getting.  Goddamn but there’s some shitty music out there.  Goddamn."

