h1. The “i” Isn’t for “impotent” Anymore

Cupertino, we have "G4 iBooks":http://store.apple.com/1-800-MY-APPLE/WebObjects/AppleStore?family=iBook.  Why Apple revises the i-prefix lines like a draftsman on amphetamines while the Power-lines have been known to sit in stasis for nearly a year I’ll never understand, but there you go: rugged lil’ plastic G4 notebooks for a song (well, a pretty good song, but way less than the goddamn symphony a PowerBook costs).

I love my iBook 700, and I’d be hesitant to use anything less durable around campus.  I’d be about one of these if I was in the market, but beware of the 12” screens: the reduction is size and weight definitely comes at the expense of your eyes.  I would kill, honest-to-god kill, for one of "these":http://www.samsung.com/Products/Monitor/Multi_FunctionLCD/Monitor_Multi_FunctionLCD_241MP.htm to come home to in the interest of saving my eyes.  Hopefully "Expos&eacute;":http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/expose/ in "Panther":http://www.apple.com/macosx/ will help the lack of screen real estate a touch.

While on the subject I would just like to remind everyone that Panther comes out Friday, and that it will be “crazy dope busted fresh” to a previously unexplored extent of freshness, craziness, bustedness, and dopeness.  If you have a Mac you should promptly seek out a copy, and if you don’t you should buy one in a vein attempt to make up for your lacking personal traits, of which we _both_ know there are many.  The Mac won’t improve or remedy them, mind you, but at least you’ll have a good computer, which is about as much as you can hope for.

And, having both threatened to kill and insulted my readership while talking nothing but Mac smack in my first non-moblog entry in some time, I will declare this post complete."