h1. C4 Day Two: Brent Simmons on Hybrid Web + Desktop Applications

My sincere apologies for not getting to this sooner.  It was my intention to have my thoughts on day two of "C4":http://c4.rentzsch.com/0/ up right after the conference ended.  Instead, it’s been over a week, which makes this all but irrelevant in intarwub time.  Hopefully someone will still find this useful.  Let’s get right into the first talk of the day.

"Brent Simmons":http://www.ranchero.com opened up the second day with his talk on melding desktop and web applications, presented straight from "VoodooPad":http://flyingmeat.com/voodoopad.html.  The talk needed little introduction, as the number of applications that talk to web applications or services is visibly expanding: feed readers, remote storage, content management systems of various stripes.  As Simmons pointed out, desktop applications can offer better performance and responsiveness, richer editing, and cooler visualizations.

The bulk of Simmons’ talk was spent on the nitty-gritty of making web integration happen from the Mac developer’s perspective.  “If Apple thinks it’s cool they’re going to support it” said Simmons, and Apple’s support of web technologies in Cocoa is decent and improving, with "WebKit":http://webkit.org/ as the foremost example.  Some excellent tips were passed along, such as that developers can manipulate the DOM through Cocoa, which was news to me.  Simmons touched on security (don’t trust external data), web services (the cool kids like REST), XML parsing (don’t rely on the CoreFoundation XML parser) syncing (“no fun… boring as hell”), the challenges of offering support for popular software.

The Q&#38;A had some real gems, including a screenshot of "NetNewsWire":http://www.newsgator.com/NGOLProduct.aspx?ProdID=NetNewsWire 3 that showed strong influences from "OmniWeb":http://www.omnigroup.com/applications/omniweb/.  Simmons owned up to doing nothing more than templated strings for his SOAP support, which got a big knowing laugh.  Someone else asked the question I had in mind: what did he think of the "Atom Publishing":http://www.ietf.org/html.charters/atompub-charter.html protocol?  Simmons had a pragmatic answer: “I hope it’s good, and I hope the cool kids use it.  I just wanna deliver cool stuff to users.  I just write the code.”  Simmons’ good humor was in evidence throughout the session, for example when commenting on Bonjour support in his primary product: “there’s a bug where it kinda just doesn’t work.”

There was a brief dicussion of various data storage approaches before the end of the Q&#38;A, in which we learned that Simmons decided CoreData was was overkill given that NetNewsWire’s data is essentially a “flat list”.  Instead, he ended up using "Gus Mueller’s SQLite wrapper":http://www.gusmueller.com/blog/archives/2005/3/22.html.

This was an excellent talk.  Simmons got right into what developers needed to know about his topic and managed to be entertaining, informative, and pleasant.  A great start to the day.