h1. Seriously

It's time to unveil this project I've been going on about.

Take a gander at "Serious DJs":http://www.seriousdjs.net/.  Go on.  Take a quick look and then head back here.

You're back?  Cool.  Now, the story.

A few months ago I was having some beers with "Craig":http://www.5dots.net/ at the "Brickskeller":http://thebrickskeller.com/ and we were, as usual, bullshitting about music.  To say that Craig and I are music buddies is an understatement.  Our iTunes libraries look 75% alike, I'd say.  We each make sure the other has heard the best new albums, new radio jams, and new mixes.  We can talk about music for hours, and frequently do.

Now, Craig also makes music.  He'd played around a bit with DJing but had never gotten way into it.  I'd been missing it.  So I say: "why don't we work on DJing together?"

So we did.  And are.

Craig brought me up to speed with new features in "Ableton Live":http://www.ableton.com/.  We started working through track lists, choosing a theme and meticulously piecing songs together.  The first couple mixes took the better part of a day, each.  The most recent one went faster, as we've fallen into a work routine.

Right now we've got a jungle mix, a "Screw":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dj_Screw mix, and a discoish mix on "the site":http://www.seriousdjs.net/, all free for the taking.  If you like what you hear, please spread the word: link the site, tag it on "del.icio.us":http://del.icio.us/, share the MP3s, or just play them for a friend.

We hope you have as much fun listening to these and future mixes and we have making them.