h1. The E Is For Enterprisey

It took quite some amount of research but I finally found a phone with minimal suck.  It’s not, like, my dream phone, but it seems solid.  Reviews say it’s solid.  It’s got… solidity.  It’s the "Nokia E60":http://europe.nokia.com/phones/e60.

The E series are business phones.  They are for _professional people_.  Sure they come with a media player but that’s where the fun stops.  There’s no camera.  No Flickr uploads.  No MyPhoneSpaceLifeLog.  No TuneRemixDJRingtone Asteroid Blaster 3D Turbo Edition.

But you can read and write Microsoft Office documents.  On your phone.  Business.

The "E60":http://feetup.org/wiki/NokiaE60 is a candybar phone, unlike the BlackBerryish "E61":http://feetup.org/wiki/NokiaE61 and its retarded American cousin the "E62":http://feetup.org/wiki/NokiaE62.  Shocking as it may seem, I don’t actually want a full keyboard on my phone.  I don’t want to be able to easily answer emails or compose novels in text message form.  If I want to do those things, I have a laptop, and my phone is right next to it most of the time.  I want a phone that compliments my laptop, not replaces it.

The E60 still does some neat stuff for all its businesslike modest: wi-fi, EDGE, landscape mode, a web browser that’s the same as Safari under the hood.  Plus, it can do anything Symbian Series 60 can do, which includes "Python":http://www.forum.nokia.com/python (albeit and old and busted version of Python).

It should get here sometime next week, just in time to send my SLVR on a long walk off a short pier.  Report after I’ve played with it for a few days.