h1. I Want Shitloads of Electronic Music

With the effective death of "Emusic":http://www.emusic.com/ (40 tracks a month?  $10?  When it used to be unlimited?  Fuck _off_) there isn't really anyplace on the interweb I know of that has shitloads of electronic music available for legitimate download.  The iTunes music store has a mostly-miserable major label selection of "electronica," the sort of advert background music that was mildly keen in 1997; nothing that's going to rock dancefloors, much less my headphones.

A few net.labels are "giving their stuff away":http://www.legaltorrents.com/, and that's something.  But if there was a really damn good site selling otherwise vinyl-only electronic tracks from a variety of labels they'd have a massive market in Final Scratch DJs like myself, not to mention the usual fans.  I don't mind picking up rekkids every now and again, but with only a couple of wax dealers to cratedig in left in town my choices are pretty limited.

Give me a site that I can pop on to and find the latest well-known label (Breakbeat Science to Yoshi Toshi, Tigerbeat6 to Warp) joints right next to whitelabels and independently-released tracks; all styles represented; internationalized; simple no-DRM bullshit MP3 delivery; make it affordable.  Give me my old favorite record shop in online format and keep it current as hell: I wanna be able to purchase and drop the same garage track that just left the producer's basement two weeks ago that some DJ in London is bangin' _tonight_.  Basically, *work * that digital distribution network all the kids have been bullshitting about for oh, the last _decade_.

I want shitloads of electronic music online, and I'll pay for it.  Who's gonna take my money?  Who's gonna provide the tools for small labels to get their shit out there?

Well, "Roj":http://www.rojisan.com/blog/cat_music_business.html might ;)