h1. Hint
--- 
- "p. Can I just say that if I want to know why you blog that I’ll go to your “about” page, which you should have so I don’t have to read daily why you blog?  And that if you’re frequently writing about why you blog that it becomes abundantly clear that you blog because you have too much free time?  And that ("Phil":http://www.timeporn.net/ back me up here) we really honestly _thought_ everyone would get it that blogs are just another information dissemination tool back in the 2K3, but instead people are still dipping into theory from that one media studies course during their college flirtation with a career in journalism and going on about blog this and medium that and nature of communication this and manuscript in progress that and holy god, just write some entries and have fun with it.
Can I?  Can we just simmer down, so I can say that?  People?  Thanks.
The next time I hear someone drag out one of those generic intellectual litmus test concepts that get tediously applied and re-applied to any new big _thing_ that comes up (“gender and [x]”, “race and [x]”, “social justice and [x]”, “geopolitics and [x]”, “deez nutz and [x]”) and apply it to blogging I’m going to break heads.  Seriously.  That shit’s tired enough when the big thing in question is actually new and radically different (ex: the Internet).  Something like blogging that’s little more than offshoots and amalgamations needs no more mental energy wasted on its “analysis” than the aforementioned deez nutz (though admittedly the already substantial body of research and critical theory regarding deez nutz makes comparison difficult at best).
And no, I don’t give a shit about what you have to say about this.  Moving on…"

