h1. Doc Searls Linked Me! (Like a Year Ago…)

As longtime readers may recall, I had my 15 nanoseconds of fame for my impressions on a Commerce Department meeting on DRM this past summer.   It was great: I got to talk to "Declan McCullagh":http://www.mccullagh.org/, piss off "Richard Stallman":http://www.stallman.org/, and get lots of geeks to admit that being geeky isn’t necessarily the best way to get their views considered.  But, still considering the nomenclature issue below and doing a vanity Google search for “al3x blog”, I came across "this post":http://doc.weblogs.com/2002/07/30#theInsideAngle on famous blogger Doc Searls’ weblog.  Quote:

bq. Remember the "DRM workshop the commerce department put on":http://www.ta.doc.gov/PRel/ma020710.htm a couple weeks ago? The one that a bunch of geeks reportedly crashed? That’s how the news went down at the time. For a sense of it, here’s "Declan at CNET":http://news.com.com/2100-1023-944668.html, "Thomas at Geek News":http://www.geek.com/news/geeknews/2002Jul/gee20020719015490.htm, "Grant Gross at Newsforge":http://newsforge.com/newsforge/02/07/18/0155208.shtml, and a "Slashdot report":http://features.slashdot.org/article.pl?sid=02/07/18/1219257 by a local attendee who was friendly to the dissidents’ cause, but disappointed by their behavior. (Thomas in Geek News suggests that this author, identified ony as  “al3x,” was Declan.) [Later…] I’ve just learned that it was Alex Payne of (what else?) al3x.net. Shoulda looked it up. Also wrote "this first hand view on the DRM workshop":http://www.kuro5hin.org/story/2002/7/18/0320/43588 at Kuro5hin.

So there you have it.  Not only was I, and this domain, blogged by Doc Searls, but I was assumed to be a pen name for Declan!  I guess that’s a fairly resounding endorsement to keep the domain and associated trappings.  Still not sure about audio releases though…