h1. Getting Started with Scala and Liftweb
I've had an ongoing dilemma when sitting down to work on Peeramour.   I could write the site in Rails in an afternoon, which is tempting.  Thing is, I write Ruby/Rails code all day.  I'm burnt out on it.  Plus,  I'd like to learn something new if I'm going to be programming in my off-hours.
Looking around the landscape of web application development, only one technology has really caught my eye: "Liftweb":http://liftweb.net/, a framework built with the "Scala":http://www.scala-lang.org/ language, which in turn runs on the JVM.  I like that both Lift and Scala borrow successful ideas where appropriate.  I like that both are built with performance, scalability, and ease of deployment in mind.  Most of all, though, I like that neither Lift nor Scala is particularly sexy.  It's just ugly enough to work.
Getting started with Scala on Mac OS X 10.4 is pretty straightforward:Download either the Gzip or Bz2 Unix tarballs from the "Scala downloads page":http://www.scala-lang.org/downloads/index.html.
Unpack your tarball of choice and put it somewhere sensible like ~/src/scala.
Add the path to the bin directory to your shell's PATH.You should now be able to run scala, type in some arithmetic expressions, that sort of thing.  Hunky-dory.  Now let's get Lift-ed.
If you've got "MacPorts":http://www.macports.org/ (and you should), do a sudo port install maven2.  Maven is a build system for big honkin' Java projects, and it takes care of grabbing dependencies and all sorts of junk.
Now, grab the actual "liftweb":http://code.google.com/p/liftweb/source source from Subversion.  The packaged versions are _old_.
Pop into your new liftweb directory and do a mvn install.  It'll take a few minutes while Maven grabs and builds this and that, but at the end you'll have built all the examples and whatnot.
A basic blog built in liftweb can be found in sites/hellolift.  Head over there, run maven jetty:run and you can poke around at a real actual Lift app.Instructions for starting your own liftweb project can be found "at the developer's blog":http://blog.lostlake.org/index.php?/archives/62-lift-QuickStart.html.  Though that post was written in June, the invocations therein still work.
I'm used to working in TextMate, but the only "Scala bundle":http://harnly.net/2007/blog/geek/macosx/textmate-bundle-for-scala/ out there is pretty immature.  I'm not after a bunch of IDE fanciness, but good syntax highlighting is a must.  I imagine things are more hospitable in Eclipse, but that way perdition lies.   My next step is to check out the "vim support":https://lampsvn.epfl.ch/trac/scala/browser/scala-tool-support/trunk/src/vim.
Now that I've got a reasonable working environment, tomorrow I'm going to take a stab at some actual code.
