h1. An Apology to FingerWorks (or how I learned to love the keyless keyboard)

I was smitten with "FingerWorks'":http://www.fingerworks.com TouchStream technology when I first
read about it on that repository (suppository?) of all things geek, Slashdot. It's a brilliant idea:
take a touchpad, make it super-duper smart with gesture support, map a keybord to it, and slap the
whole thing on an ergonomic frame. You get a device that lets you mouse, gesture with your
fingertips for damn near every keyboard shortcut you can think of, and then go right to typing
without moving your hands. It did wonders for my crippling hands, and the mousing and gestures were
very intuitive.

Typing was another story. I stumbled around the keyboard for several weeks, finally calling
FingerWorks with thoughts of returning the ST. I was told that one needed about five weeks to really
get comfortable with the key layout, so I gave it time (time past the 30 day limit on returns,
something of a leap of faith). Sure enough, I got comfortable with the layout, and my fingers
memorized where to go for what. But then, a problem: once I was able to type quickly, the text
completion firmware in the keyboard had a hard time keeping up with me. With the keys being
essentially "virtual," software handles the process of figuring out what the hell you're trying to
type and makes guesses; it doesn't always guess right, however, and I found that frustrating.

Once again, I contacted FingerWorks, and was basically told to type somewhat slowly and carefully,
particularly when typing non-English words (like geekisms). In a huff over my lost words per minute,
I shipped the ST back and went to re-explore the world of mechanical keyboards and mice.

I found a miserable, finger-twisting world. I like the keyboard built into my iBook well enough, and
its accompanying trackpad isn't half bad either. But trying to find a decent mechanical keyboard
that'll fit into my rather cramped dorm desk keyboard tray, and then an ergonomic mouse to match,
proved basically impossible. I tried a MacAlly iceKey, whose laptop-like keys make for fast input
but no wrist support. I tried an Adesso Tru-Form with a built-in touchpad so awkwardly placed that
it nullified the benefits of the keyboard's otherwise ergonomic layout. In the mouse department, I
tried a Kensington Studio Mouse, which was simply too dainty for my big hands, though very stylish.
All in all, I was left longing for my TouchStream ST. So I called FingerWorks again, and it's on its
way back to me.

Ultimately, sacrificing a few extra words per minute of typing speed for improved ergonomics and
gesture support is entirely worthwhile. My knuckles have locked up again, being away from the
TouchStream for almost five days. With that in mind, my apologies to FingerWorks, makers of the best
damn computer input device around. I'm a tough customer, but the ST's price warrants some second
thoughts. It's worth it, though. Boy, is it ever worth it _cracks knuckles_."