h1. Three Mac Pieces, #1: The iPod Story
I used to have a bad habit of acquiring and selling gear constantly.  My gadget portfolio was ever-rotating, though through deft eBaying I never managed to come out more than $20-30 behind when swapping one toy for another.  Nonetheless, it’s a habit I decided to break a year ago.  I’ve had the same laptop, the same phone, and the same iPod since.  Though I knew the bulky 40GB clickwheel iPod didn’t make as much sense for ambling around San Francisco as an iPod shuffle, I decided to wait until it bit the dust to replace it, just to stick to my resolution.
The planned obsolescence gods heard me, I guess.  Shortly after moving, my iPod went on the fritz, doing all kinds of weird disk stuff.  I reflashed the firmware, did all the diagnostics the Genius Bar would do, and finally broke down and went over to the big Apple store downtown.
Genius: “Well, we can replace it for a $30 processing fee, or you can buy Apple Care for $60 and that’ll get you a replacement and and an extended warranty.”
Me: “Uh.  I don’t really want a new clickwheel iPod.  Don’t you guys give a credit for bringing in dead iPods so the batteries can be recycled?”
Genius: “Only for iPods out of warranty.”
Me, head in hands: “I know that wasn’t your decision, but if you get the chance to talk to a superior, please tell them that is a stupid policy.”
Genius: “Yeah.  So, what do you want to do?”
Me: “Just replace it, I guess.  I’m only going to turn around and sell it on Craigslist, buy a shuffle.”
Genius: “Yeah, I’m a big shuffle advocate.  The clickwheels aren’t the most… _robust_ iPods we’ve made.”
My replacement came in, and I bought a shuffle earlier today.  Haven’t used it yet.  My conversation with an Apple store checkout clerk leads me to believe it’s more _robust_.
Me, grabbing a 1GB shuffle out of a stack placed right by the registers for maximum impulse buying: “Yoink!”
Clerk: “Have you considered buying a protective case?”
Me: “I have considered it, and came to the conclusion that the shuffles are built out of a durable, high-density plastic.”
Clerk: “One night my girlfriend was in a mood because I told her to get out and she went for a walk and was having a cry I guess and threw her shuffle against a brick wall and it still worked perfectly.  So you probably don’t need a case.”
Me: “Neat.”
I’d like to not go back to the Apple store downtown for several weeks.
