h1. My Interview with Waferbaby

My friend "Daniel":http://waferbaby.com/, perhaps better known as Waferbaby, has started a new section of his ever-evolving web presence that features interviews with people about their hardware and software setups. It's called, appropriately, "The Setup":http://waferbaby.com/setup, and I'm flattered to be the "first person Daniel interviewed":http://waferbaby.com/setup/2009/01/02/al3x for it.

I've reproduced my answers here for my own record-keeping. In case you've ever wanted to know basically anything about how I compute, I tried to answer Daniel's questions in extreme detail. The speculative final question was the most fun to answer.

h2. So who are you, and what do you do?

I'm "Alex Payne":http://al3x.net/. I go by "al3x":http://twitter.com/al3x around the Interwho. I work at "Twitter":http://twitter.com/ in San Francisco as their "API":http://apiwiki.twitter.com/ Lead. Our API is how we expose the things you can do with Twitter in a way that programmers can use in their own applications and websites. Part of my workday is spent writing code to make the API go, and part is spent helping developers out with their questions and suggestions.

In my free time, I'm working on a book about the "Scala":http://scala-lang.org/ programming language. I geek out on programming languages, economics, culture, and theory. I "DJ":http://seriousdjs.net/ with a friend once a month.

h2. What hardware are you using to get your work done?

I have a 15" "MacBook Pro":http://www.apple.com/macbookpro/, one of the final revisions before the current black-bordered unibody design. It's got a 2.6 GHz Core 2 Duo processor and 4 GB of memory. I hook it up to a 30" "Cinema Display":http://www.apple.com/displays/cinema/ when I'm at work, and I prop it up on "Rain Design iLap":http://www.raindesigninc.com/ilap.html when I'm at home. I type "Dvorak":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dvorak_Simplified_Keyboard, but I leave my keycaps in their factory default QWERTY layout.

Instrumental to having just one machine is a good networked storage and backup strategy. I have a "ReadyNAS NV":http://www.readynas.com/ at home with about 750 GB of expandable RAID storage. Most of the disk goes to store media that I'd flip out if I lost, and the rest goes to "Time Machine":http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/timemachine.html backups. I've also started backing up essential files with "Backblaze":https://www.backblaze.com/.

I always have my original (pre-3G) 8 GB "iPhone":http://www.apple.com/iphone/ with me. I listen to "Shure SE110MPA":http://store.shure.com/store/shure/en_US/DisplayProductDetailsPage/productID.106610400 headphones on the go and "Audioengine 5":http://www.audioengineusa.com/a5_home.php speakers over an "AirPort Express":http://www.apple.com/airportexpress/ at home. My home network is tied together by a "Linksys WRT54GL":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linksys_WRT54G_series wireless router running the "Tomato":http://www.polarcloud.com/tomato firmware.

h2. And what software?

I spend most of my day flipping between "TextMate":http://macromates.com/, "Terminal":http://www.apple.com/macosx/technology/unix.html, "Safari":http://www.apple.com/safari/, and a "Fluid":http://fluidapp.com/ app for "Gmail":http://mail.google.com/. I write Scala and Ruby code in TextMate, run tests and such in Terminal, and answer hell of email with Gmail. I keep Safari mostly ad-free with "Safari AdBlock":http://safariadblock.sourceforge.net/ and speed up searching with "Inquisitor":http://www.inquisitorx.com/safari/index_en.php.

I use "iChat":http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/ichat.html for IM and "Twitterrific":http://iconfactory.com/software/twitterrific to interact with Twitter. "iCal":http://www.apple.com/macosx/features/300.html#ical syncs up to "Google Calendar":http://www.google.com/calendar for scheduling, and "Things":http://culturedcode.com/things/ keeps track of my tasks on both my MacBook and my iPhone. I've recently started journaling, and I use "MacJournal":http://www.marinersoftware.com/sitepage.php?page=85 for that. I keep a big library of PDFs (academic papers, presentations, books, &c.) in "Yep":http://www.yepthat.com/yep/index.html. I've taken to storing sensitive files in encrypted disk images managed by "Knox":http://www.knoxformac.com/.

I also run some of the usual "power user" Mac enhancements: "TextExpander":http://www.smileonmymac.com/TextExpander/ to make emails go faster, "LaunchBar":http://www.obdev.at/launchbar/ to get to what I need quickly and to keep my clipboard history accessible, "Growl":http://growl.info/ and "HardwareGrowler":http://growl.info/documentation/hardwaregrowler.php to get visual notifications from software, and "Caffeine":http://lightheadsw.com/caffeine/ to keep my Mac awake while watching web videos and such. I keep tabs on my machine with "iStat pro":http://islayer.com/apps/istatpro/.

We use "Dropbox":http://www.getdropbox.com/ at Twitter to share documents, and we make pretty extensive use of "Google Apps":http://www.google.com/apps/intl/en/business/index.html. We use "Trac":http://trac.edgewall.org/ for ticketing internally, but I keep API-related tickets public on "Google Code":http://code.google.com/p/twitter-api/issues/list. We do code reviews with "Review Board":http://www.review-board.org/ and browse our "Git":http://git.or.cz/ repositories with "cgit":http://hjemli.net/git/cgit/.

I've usually got "iTunes":http://www.apple.com/itunes/ or "Last.fm":http://www.last.fm/ playing, though lately I've been listening to "Bloom":http://linktoapp.com/bloom play itself when I need to focus. Speaking of focus, I use "Isolator":http://willmore.eu/software/isolator/ to get distractions out of the way. When I need distractions again, I see what's on my "Instapaper":http://www.instapaper.com/ or "Google Reader":http://www.google.com/reader/.

h2. What would be your perfect, ultimate setup?

"Bill Joy":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bill_Joy "said":http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LN2shXeJNz8&feature=channel_page at this year's TED conference, "I'd argue today that we have incredibly powerful computers, but we don't have very good software for them". I'm of the same mind.

Hardware-wise, my current setup is a dream. I love having just one machine to look after, and I love that it's both portable and powerful; my only wish would be for a workday's worth of battery life. I can get decent network access nearly anywhere via "HSDPA":http://www.wireless.att.com/businesscenter/broadbandconnect_b2b/?_requestid=42465 if Wi-Fi isn't available. The Cinema Display lets me sprawl out. My ReadyNAS gives me a sense of security about my data. My iPhone lets me leave the house with just my keys, my wallet, a pair of headphones and this one little magical device that can connect me to anyone, direct me anywhere, and entertain me for days. It's a good time for hardware.

Software is another story. I'm "perpetually dissatisfied with my text editor":http://al3x.net/2008/10/22/on-flight-to-old-text-editors.html, the tool I spend the most time with. "OS X":http://www.apple.com/macosx/ is the best Mac experience there's ever been, but it's hardly the best computing experience I can imagine. The iPhone is an incremental improvement, but I can't accomplish the majority of my daily computing tasks on it comfortably.

I want to interact with my computer in a fundamentally different way. The desktop metaphor is dead; a generation of children have grown up never working with the physical objects that the virtual desktop represents. What I really want is a modernized "Plan 9":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plan_9_from_Bell_Labs, a software platform that's designed from the ground up for our networked, distributed world. If you try to placate me with the assertion that the Web is this new operating system I will become violent.

I want better software: more usable, more accessible, more open, more secure, more integrated, more seamless. I want a better software development experience. I want better programming languages with better development toolkits. Fundamentally, I want better abstractions for the same computation I can do today with all that lovely hardware.