h1. Crisis Time
--- 
- "p. It’s that happy time of year again: marks from the Fall semester are in and, whaddyaknow?! they reflect my utter lack of interest in a full-time, on-campus college education.  Understandably, the familial powers that be are no longer interested in financing me to be utterly uninterested, so it’s Major Life Decision time right about now.
Beg and plead (or alternately student loan) myself back into another semester at %(=caps)UMBC%, where I could easily pick a handful of engaging courses guaranteed to end up as solid %(=caps)GPA%-boosting grades for the coming Spring semester – and risk bombing again when the dull core classes have to inevitably be dealt with?
Or get some serious, paying, mostly full-time work in the city, move to a lil’ flat in the DC metro area, and finish up school online at %(=caps)UMUC%?  Sure, it entails the same tedious core courses, but paying for the education on my dime and working at it on my time seem like pretty motivating factors to me.
I’m leaning towards the latter, as I’ve had enough of years of scholastic ups-and-downs and feel like it’s time to take charge, get it over with on my terms, engage myself with work, and generally move on.  But that also means a harder life, financially and otherwise.
Either way school’s gonna get done; I’ve accepted that a college degree is a must, and moreover a personal challenge I want to meet.  But how to do it, and where?
Your suggestions are appreciated, dear readers.  I’ll be here, thinking it over."

