h1. Selection 3: Post-Rock
Tuesday night is theme/genre night on Selection 3, and tonight’s genre being explored is Post-Rock, in large part because I’m still sorting out the tech for more “mixable” styles of music.  But that’s not to belittle the post-rock sound, so named for its use of traditional rock instruments and, to a degree, musical elements, but taken in vastly different directions.  If anything, a parallel between chamber music and some classic music would be more apt, particularly in the cases of the Godspeed! camp and Rachel’s.  Expect to hear lengthy songs that build in tempo and intensity, simple themes and melodies repeated and explored, and vocals taking second-stage to lush instrumentation.  I’ve got a few different takes on the post-rock sound in here, but if you tune in for anything, tune in for “Christmas Steps” by Mogwai, which I’m thrilled to play in its entirety on the radio.  *Listen in on "%(=caps)WMBC%":http://wmbc.umbc.edu from 8-9PM %(=caps)EST%.*




p. Playlist: **Post-Rock Feb 17** 10 songs, 1:01:02 total time, 64.1 MB


Title
Artist
Album
Time


p. Kc Accidental
p. Broken Social Scene
p. You Forgot It In People
p. 3:50


p. Dial: Revenge
p. Mogwai
p. Rock Action
p. 3:28


p. Six Pack
p. Tortoise
p. Standards
p. 3:11


p. End Of Music
p. Do Make Say Think
p. &#38; %(=caps)YET% &#38; %(=caps)YET%
p. 6:53


p. Greet Death
p. Explosions in the Sky
p. Those Who Tell the Truth Shall Die, Those Who Tell the Truth Shall Live Forever
p. 10:02


p. Christmas Steps
p. Mogwai
p. Come On Die Young
p. 10:39


p. Sit In The Middle Of Three Galloping Dogs
p. A Silver Mt. Zion
p. He Has Left Us Alone But Shafts Of Light Sometimes Grace The Corners Of Our Rooms
p. 5:08


p. On Demeter
p. Rachel’s
p. Selenography
p. 7:04


p. Agetis Byrjun
p. Sigur Ros
p. Agetis Byrjun
p. 7:56


p. Golden Proche
p. Mogwai
p. Happy Songs for Happy People
p. 2:51


