h1. Sorted
--- 
- "p. I’ve resolved to go back to %(=caps)UMBC% for another semester, and to schedule that semester to be nothing but engaging, enjoyable courses: none of this core curriculum bullshit I’ve been doing pretty much nonstop since I started college.  I got some great advice on my school/work/life dilemma but the most affecting was the suggestion to actually give myself a chance to be engaged by school before dismissing it.  So while I may have to contend with more dull requirements down the road, they’ll hardly seem so bad if I have a sense of a generally positive educational experience, or so the logic goes.  Alternately, if I go back this semester and still find myself unengaged then I know most certainly that full-time university is not for me.  It’s a safe bet, and I’ve taken enough stupid gambles in recent years to see the value there.
Needless to say, the parental units are pleased with this decision.  And while I think I could have made the work + online education + tiny flat in the city thing work it would have been damn hard.  I guess I’ll know better in a semester if that difficulty was necessary for me or not.  Sometimes I feel like I have to learn everything the hardest way possible as some sort of karmic compensation for the opportunities and gifts of personal ability I’ve been given.  I’m hoping I’ll be able to take advantage of the education being offered to me despite that propensity to making things hard for myself.
On the practical end of things I’ll be back in my apartment on campus, same room and same roommates.  I desperately, desperately need to be more social on campus, as driving down to DC every weekend to escape building a social life at %(=caps)UMBC% just reinforces a lack of commitment to the school and my education there.
I believe, however, that my new espresso machine is key to expanding my social network.  There is no good coffee on the %(=caps)UMBC% campus.  I think you see how my ploy works.  Social life?  Check."

