h1. San Francisco Day 3 (Jan 16 2005)

Sunday morning took Phil and I back to the Haight to stop at "Future Primitive":http://www.futureprimitivesound.com/home.php and "Upper Playground":http://www.upperplayground.com/, two local purveyors of underground hip-hop fashion, music, and culture.  I found a few sartorial gems and was generally inspired, realizing that somewhere there exists clothing that's street without being blinged-out, designed without being pretentious, stylish without being poncey (note to self: more such boutiques, less AX).

We then took BART to Berkley and wandered the main drags, somewhat unimpressed (not that we were expecting anything in particular).  A nice lunch at a chain pho joint powered excessive comic book buying at Comic Relief, which now has all my money.  While at the register the cashier's friend burst in clutching a copy of Dr. Dre's "The Chronic" and proceeded to relate a hilarious tale of retrieving the CD from his brother's room before said sibling was hauled off to jail for grand theft auto.  It's those charming moments that really make a vacation.

After a brief rest at the house and a lovely dinner at Chow we took the MUNI down to the beach.  Now, this took some sinking in for me: you can take _public transit_ to the _Pacific Ocean_.  On a whim.  And until quite late.  You can, as I did, watch the moonlight on the water for half an hour without speaking so much as a word to your companions, without thinking much more than "that's gorgeous."  And then it's back to the city, the beauty of the water happily waiting for you to return.

Unfathomable.