h1. Car Free
After months of trying, I finally sold my car this past Friday.
For all the hassles of selling one’s car privately it went pretty well, though it baffles me that the bank I had my car loan with (BB&#38;T) had no facilities to transfer a newly lien-free title expediently.  What buyer is going to be comfortable handing over a chunk of cash and then waiting around for 10+ days for the new title to show up?  Honestly.  Banks.
It’s a burden lifted not to be saddled with car payments, insurance payments, ever-higher gas prices, and the general feeling of anchorage imposed by large and costly personal property.  That’s less an indictment of owning cars than of taking on debt to own a largely impractical car.
As largely impractical cars go, though, the "2006 Mitsubishi Eclipse GS":http://autos.yahoo.com/newcars/mitsubishi_eclipse_gs_2006/17218/style_overview.html I owned was nothing but pleasant.  It had no mechanical problems in the year I owned it, accommodated a couple of improbable loads in its time, and always offered its absurd stereo system to maximum bass advantage.  I bought it to make my daily commute -- when I had one -- more bearable, and that it did.
In the years previous to the Eclipse I drove a hand-me-down Honda Civic.  My future cars will undoubtedly tend back towards that practical end of the vehicle spectrum.  I’ll miss the perception afforded you on the road when you drive a sportier car:  I found that fellow motorists are more likely to give you a wide berth and yield the fast lane.  It’s a convenience, but not one worth the expense of a sporty car.
For the time being I can walk, bike, and Metro most everywhere I  need to go.  When we return from London I’ll probably sign up for "Zipcar":http://www.zipcar.com for weekend Trader Joe’s runs and such, but I intend to put off owning a car again for as long as possible.  Until the auto industry can deliver to US consumers practicality, design, post-petroleum fuel efficiency, and low environmental impact in an affordable package, I’m simply not interested.
