h1. Lessons In Being Edited
Today, I learned something useful the hard way. Which is, incidentally, pretty much the way I learn everything.
A couple months back I was invited to post on a web site that specializes in commentary about the future of the Internet. I did an interview with one of the site's editors.  In subsequent weeks, I found it hard to make the time to write a proper editorial-style piece for them.  I finally made the time this past weekend, and earlier today my piece was published in an edited form.
I was given the opportunity to see the edits.  But I still had my original words so clearly in my head that I glossed over the edited version, checking only for glaring mistakes in grammar.  I should have taken more care  and this is entirely my fault  because portions of my original piece that were essential to a cogent argument were removed. &nbsp;I don't think the editor had any ill intent, and it was my failed responsibility to ensure that I was happy with what got published.
Presently, the piece is being torn into by commenters, and perhaps rightly so: without some of the material I originally included, it comes off as flimsy troll-bait. &nbsp;I could post the edited-out paragraphs in a comment on the piece, but out of context they don't offer much.
The experience has been a valuable lesson for me.  The next time someone wants to edit my writing, I need to take time and approach the edited version as a new reader would.  Had I done so, I wouldn't have allowed the piece to be published in its final form. &nbsp;It's not really possible to retract something published on the web, nor is retraction in keeping with the informal ethics of blogging.  But like "Fred Wilson":http://www.avc.com/a_vc/2008/10/the-stupidest-q.html a few days ago, I just want to take it back.
What I was hoping for was honest answers to an honest question: how much do we have to lose before we consider different strategies for Internet technologies?  Because I failed to take care with how my words were published, I'm not going to learn anything.  That's the real loss for me.
