h1. In Case You Need My Code Scraps

Since rejiggering my domain recently, Id been running "code.al3x.net":http://code.al3x.net/ on "Collaboa":http://collaboa.org/, a Rails-based "Trac":http://trac.edgewall.com/ clone.  However, the Collaboa project doesnt seem to be going anywhere fast, despite an announcement of renewed activity.  In response, a frustrated Collaboa user announced a fork called "Retrospectiva":http://www.retrospectiva.org/, which I switched to a couple days ago.

Retrospectiva is quite full-featured for a beta release.  It already goes a ways beyond Collaboa, and even Trac in some respects (the blog extension, for example).  Retrospectiva isn't production-ready, though, so for the time being code.al3x.net is simply serving up plain ol' Apache-powered Subversion.

I'm so taken with Nginx that I decided to keep it as my public-facing HTTP server.  I just run an Apache virtual host for Subversion on a high port and and tell Nginx to proxy to it like so:

  server {
    listen 80;
    server_name code.al3x.net;

    location / {
      rewrite ^/ /svn/  permanent;
    }

    location /svn/ {
      proxy_pass http://127.0.0.1:8010;
    }
  }

The rewrite bounce on / is thanks to httpd stupidness: you cant serve up a repository index  that plain Collection of repositories page you've probably seen around  from Location / as best I can tell.  Various attempts to Alias or Redirect in my Apache configuration didn't prove fruitful, but Nginx works like a champ.

At some point I'll move back to Retrospectiva or Trac or the like, but there's simply not enough code there right now to worry about it.