h1. It's Beautiful, It Works, Now Let Me Record!

My new 30GB iPod is, in a word, sextastic.  I'll also accept "supercalafragilistic."  Not only is it, from the packaging to the device itself, a total __object__ (read in dripping French accent), but its ease of use is unparalleled.  There was no geek-out time necessary.  That is to say, the time I had reserved to "figure out how to get it working" was utterly unnecessary.  Plugged it into my iBook, it found iTunes, synced and charged, and a couple hours later I was blasting Venetian Snares down I-95 (via a little "Belkin FM adaptor":http://catalog.belkin.com/IWCatProductPage.process?Merchant_Id=&amp;Section_Id=201526&amp;pcount=&amp;Product_Id=140984, which, for the record, is passable but far from "elegant":http://www.griffintechnology.com/products/itrip/).  I was almost dumbfounded, particularly after years of fighting to get anything at all to interface with Linux.  It's just so utterly elegant.

What's more, it turns Apple __did__ "add line-in recording capability":http://www.ipoding.com/modules.php?op=modload&amp;name=News&amp;file=article&amp;sid=1135&amp;mode=thread&amp;order=0 to the new iPods, and they "may be releasing an adaptor":http://www.ipoding.com/modules.php?op=modload&amp;name=News&amp;file=article&amp;sid=1138&amp;mode=thread&amp;order=0 to enable this feature in the near future.  This rocked my world.  I've wanted, for years, a portable digital recording device that doesn't "suck":http://www.archos.com/lang=en//products/prw_500277.html.  As an (amateur) electronic musician, being able to record any interesting sound I come across would be a total godsend.  It's the audio equivalent of always having a camera on you.  If Apple (or a third party manufacturer) can really make this happen, I'll plotz.  And then I'll give them my money.