h1. Further Tales From the Whine Country

A few things happened today.

First, I received this email from DO_NOT_REPLY@apple.com:

  Please read our Apple Discussions Use Agreement so that you may discover what constitutes an
  appropriate post to our service. Section two, "Submissions," is most germane.

  Your post, copied below, has been removed from Apple Discussions. This area is intended to
  address technical issues about Apple products. Posts that do not conform to the Apple Discussions
  Use Agreement are inappropriate.

  Please see the Apple Discussions Use Agreement at
  "http://discussions.apple.com/help.jspa":http://discussions.apple.com/help.jspa for more
  information on the proper use of Apple's Discussion forums.

Fantastic.  Meanwhile, dozens of trolls are running around Apple's forums posting useless, insulting comments, none of which seem to receive any moderation.  But hey, it's their forum, they can run it how they want, right?

Next, I found Daniel Jalkut's "Red Sweater Blog":http://www.red-sweater.com/blog/, where he's been obsessively documenting and trying to remedy "the whine and other noises":http://www.red-sweater.com/blog/macbook-pro-noise-complaints/.  He even signed "the petition":http://www.petitiononline.com/whinefix/petition.html.  Nice guy.

I ran his MagicNoiseKiller just now.  The whine stopped, as advertised.  But with the processor whine gone, the LCD inverter noise became apparent.  It's not as distracting as the whine, but unlike the accounts on the forums mine only goes away when I turn the display to its darkest setting.  No workaround there.

I'm crossing my fingers about the reports of revised logic boards.  As soon as I hear of enough people getting 100% working replacements you better believe I'll be tap-dancing on my local Genius Bar in cleats until they hook me the fuck up.