h1. Welcome To The “New” al3x.net
If you’re reading this post, you’re reading it off the spankin’ new host for al3x.net: "Dr2.net":http://www.dr2.net/.  My previous host, "Root Route":http://www.rootr.net/, provided adequate hosting for a reasonable price on the OpenBSD platform, and not a damn thing more, certainly not luxuries like a control panel.  Lately their MySQL databases were unreliable, and their software updates and patches were lagging.  When I couldn’t run "WordPress":http://wordpress.org/ for no seemingly good reason on their servers that was the last straw.  Shared hosting may be a commodity, but Dr2 had exceptional turnaround time on setup (less than an hour from ordering), and their servers are seemingly well-admin’d.
While moving hosts, I moved my blog software from MoveableType to WordPress without a hitch.  Rather than putting the square peg of my old site template into the round hole of WordPress’s template engine, I instead adapted "Michael Heilemann":http://binarybonsai.com/’s "Scandinavia":http://www.alexking.org/software/wordpress/styles/sample.php?wpstyle=scandinavia WordPress %(=caps)CSS% style to fit my font and color scheme, removing his use of images for the minimal layout you’re looking at (if you’re not reading the %(=caps)RSS%).  And speaking of %(=caps)RSS%, the new %(=caps)URL% for that is "http://www.al3x.net/feed/rss2/":http://www.al3x.net/feed/rss2/.  I’ve attempted to redirect the old index.xml and index.rdf files to the new feed, so we’ll see how that goes.  %(=caps)RSS 1%.0 or 0.91 feeds are available, just not publicly linked to.  An "Atom feed":http://www.al3x.net/feed/atom/ is available for the adventurous, as well.
If there is anything, _anything_ you desire from this new site, dear reader, do not hesitate to ask.  The old archives should still be available at their old URLs, and all posts and comments have been migrated over.  But if something doesn’t work for you just me know, as I’m sure there are details I’ve missed.
