h1. Because Life’s Too Goddamn Short

I shelled out for a copy of "Traktor 2.5":http://www.nativeinstruments.de/index.php?traktor2_us, academically priced (gonna make the most of that schoolin’ while I can).  It sure ain’t perfect, but it’s conducive to me getting my mix on.  With Ableton Live I needed about a four hour block to map out an hour long mix before even running through it.  In Traktor, I need maybe half an hour, if that.

Live is still a better choice (really, the only choice) for people doing complex mixes with multiple tracks + samples + effects, or realtime remixes of their own work incorporated into DJ sets.  If I was more serious about DJing and music-making it’d be worth the time in spades.  But mixing is relaxation for me when I get the chance to do it, so a tool that I don’t have to fight with is the tool I’m using.

I’ve been playing with Traktor via an "Evolution X-Session UC-17":http://www.evolution.co.uk/products/evo_xsession.htm, which is an adequate %(=caps)MIDI% controller but no replacement for a DJ mixer; its layout in no way reflects the decks-plus-mixer interface of Traktor.  But at the end of the day the X-Session is a bank of knobs and a crossfader, which gets the job done of  controlling (and, by extension, recording) all of Traktor’s %(=caps)MIDI%-assignable functions.  In using a %(=caps)MIDI% controller you may lose the familiarity of a DJ mixer, but you gain control of some of Traktor’s added goodies like looping and filters.

What would be ideal, of course, is a real DJ mixer that also sends %(=caps)MIDI% data out from its knobs and sliders.  The gorgeous "Allen &amp; Heath Xone 92":http://www.em411.com/show.php?area=alert&amp;area_id=678 fits that bill, but is hideously expensive.  The Traktor community talks endlessly about custom controllers but little has surfaced, unsurprisingly.  I’ll continue to use the X-Session in lieu of a real mixer or specialized controller, but if I had cash burning a hole in my pocket just a little smaller than the Xone 92 I’d think about "one of these":.  I’ve always wanted that mixer, digital mixing or not.

At any rate, it’s nice not to lay warp markers until my hands ache.