h1. Some Other Things

Because my life happens in tiny, atomic events:

It’s our intention to move to the Eastern Market neighborhood of DC before the lease on my current place in up in early August.  My rent is being hiked several hundred dollars to a whopping $1400 per month.  It’s a 560 square foot studio.  I can’t even usually get a parking space near it if I come home later than 8PM.  It’s not a bad place, but fuck that.

I’m selling my car.  It’s been a good car, the Eclipse, but driving in the DC area is unpleasant and entirely too costly.  I’m also concerned about its lack of fuel economy.  I’d like to be greener.

I’m getting a bike.  Though I’ve been surrounded by bike people for years I’ve never been one of them.  Bikes make a lot of sense.

Getting a bike and walking more means getting a bag that’s actually comfortable on the shoulder, unlike the (otherwise nice) Burton DJ bag I "picked up a while back":http://al3x.net/2006/04/12/bag-it-up.  I’m probably gonna comission one from "this guy":http://bike.zugster.net/.  His "bag compendium":http://bike.zugster.net/compendium/bags, amongst other things, suggests he’s hella into bags.

I went back to eating mostly vegetarian, this time making an exception for fish and shellfish.  Health, morality, and meal-planning convenience were my impetus.

Generally, I’m trying to bring my life here in DC back into line with the positive changes I made when I moved to San Francisco.  I kind of did a 180 upon my return home last summer, and I’m gradually getting back where I want to be.