h1. Why Does DC Hate My Ears?

Something is amiss in the cafes and dining establishments in the greater DC metro area.  Somehow it’s been decided that indulding baristas and restaurant owners in their musical preferences is more important than playing music that will appeal to a broad swath of customers (ie, generic “cool” music with occassional standout favorites apropos to the vibe of the establishment and kept at a volume low enough to allow for conversation).  This has been decided, and the rest of us suffer.

Example 1, regular NoVA haunt Murky Coffee (formerly Common Grounds): the late afternoon/after-work crowd is tormented with only the most excrutiating tracks from _The Velvet Underground &amp; Nico_.  Now don’t get me wrong, I like me some Lou Reed, and I’m first to put the Velvets on when it’s getting on in the day on a Tuesday and I’ve nothing better to do than go on a four year heroin binge.  I don’t hate.  But, save the three art student assholes in the place who might be able to convince themselves of the album’s importance enough to pretend to like it, the furtive winces about the place connoted a shared sense of pair and suffering I haven’t seen since 9/11 (too soon?).

Example 2, Clarendon Italian eatery Faccia Luna (where I may have lost my keys the other night): mid-week diners come for the reasonably priced gourmet pasta and pizza and stay despite a soundtrack of _unending wailing guitar solos_.  Faccia Luna may not be the most prim of neuvo Italiano eateries, but no establishment serving butternut squash agniolloti warrents sarenades by Joe Satriani.  Note to owner: please switch your XM from “The Boneyard” to “Anything Fucking Else.”

Example 3, Tryst in Adams Morgan, right now: after half an hour of peculiar banjo music too well-recorded to be anything approaching classic or authentic, a brief foray into something Enya-esque, and now alternating forgetten ‘80s almost-pop and Radiohead knockoffs, I’m ready to give up on the appearance of being open to conversation and don my headphones.  In fact, I’ve staved off putting them on just keep my ire up for this post.  But seriously Tryst, we all know what kind of joint you are: play good indie rock during the day, play jazzy hip electronic stuff in the evening, and leave your customers happy.  Also: what was up with not hosting an %(=caps)NYE% event?  I would’ve paid _literally dollars_ to sip godawful champagne at my favorite hipster cafe.  Your loss.  I still love you, though.

My three examples having laid forth a platform of evidence that cannot be argued with, I conclude with this thought: anyone who thinks that “never knowing what I’m going to hear” when they go to their favorite cafe or restaurant is a good thing is on crazy dope.  Stupid wack dope.  Give me new music I haven’t heard when I go to a DJ night to hear it, and stay the fuck out of my places-to-sit-that-aren’t-home.

Is the background music insufferable in your city?  Comments welcomed, for a change.