h1. Real Life Chilling Effects

My family went over to the palatial Virginia home of some of our friends, an extensive clan headed
by an old friend of my stepfather who happens to run a large computer company. After good food and a
chance to play with a stylish but otherwise astoundingly mediocre Compaq tablet PC, we got to
chatting. One of the daughters in this family is going to school in Scotland, and studying the
biosciences. When asked by my mother if she intended to move abroad after school, she quickly
confirmed this. Not only does she (understandably) like the people and atmosphere in the UK, but
_she's interested in stem-cell research, which she probably won't be able to do here in the US_.

This just about ruined my evening right there. Here's an incredibly smart, American
born/raised/educated young woman interested in life saving sciences that she _won't be able to
pursue in our country_. We're losing her, many of her student peers and their professional
superiors, the money and immediate medicinal benefits their research could bring, and our position as leaders in the world technology and medicine markets. And what for?

The ethical insecurities of Congressmen, Senators, and lobbyists who call themselves Christians
while redirecting funds for social services and public health to weapons and missile defense? Our
political leaders are making our decisions clouded in a veil of technological __and__ ethical
ignorance; they have demonstrated little understanding in either realm. But a decision that appeals
to the self-appointed "faithful" in this country can gather Bible Belt support in numbers large
enough to sway a reelection vote. Good Christian values have nothing to do with it.

We're losing this talented young woman, and countless like her. We're just plain losing, as a nation
previously concerned with progress. These are the "Chilling Effects":http://www.chillingeffects.org/
of technologically impaired legislation, and winter is just beginning…