h1. X-Mas iPod Begets Accessorizing

Looks like I’m getting every geek’s Christmas dream gift tomorrow: a lovely snow white 20GB "iPod":http://www.apple.com/ipod/.  Loyal readers may recall that I had a fat ol’ 40GB iPod for awhile this past summer, but that I ended up selling it for fear of non-use during the semester and fiscal concerns (read: I couldn’t afford it when I bought it, and eBay is friendlier than the repo man).  I had some issues with it at the time: its size made it too bulky for the gym (not an issue with the slim 20GB version), and getting it to jive with my car stereo was a daily battle between me and an infuriatingly tempramental, battery-sucking, lower-than-lo-fi Belkin FM adaptor.  How do I hope to avoid further FM adaptor frustrations you ask?

Not with an "iTrip":http://www.griffintechnology.com/products/itrip/index.html like all y’all suckas expect, I reply.  The iTrip may not eat battery or have a paltry four station range like the Belkin, but it’s still bloody FM.  Fuck that, I say – I’m not afraid of a lil’ modding!  I’m gonna go all out and put a headphone adaptor in my Civic with one of "these":http://www.logjamelectronics.com/piehonaux.html.  It worked for "this guy":http://www.ipodlounge.com/forums/showthread.php?s=&amp;threadid=13224, so it’ll work for me.  I hope.

Now I just need to settle on a case.  I’m leaning towards the flexible plastic "iSkin eXo2":http://www.iskin.com/exo2.html but I’m open to recommendations – particularly for cases that work well in the gym.  Danke!